HISTORIES 

OF 

American Schools for the Deaf, 

1817-1893. 



PREPARED FOR THE VOLTA BUREAU BY THE PRINCIPALS AND 
SUPERINTENDENTS OF THE SCHOOLS, AND PUBLISHED IN 
COMMEMORATION OF THE FOUR HUNDREDTH 
ANNIVERSARY OF THE DISCOVERY 
OF AMERICA. 




EDITED BY 

EDWARD ALLEN FAY, Ph. D., 

PKOFESSOR IN THE NATIONAL DEAF-MUTE COLLEGE, AND EDITOR OF THE AMERICAN 
ANNALS OF THE DEAF. 



IN THREE VOLUMES. 



Volume I. 

PUBLIC SCHOOLS IN THE UNITED STATES, 

Established 1817-1854. 



WASHINGTON, D. C. : 
THE VOLTA BURHAU 
1893. 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2015 



https://archive.org/details/b21909726_0001 



INTRODUCTION. 



In this commemoration year it is interesting to recall 
the fact that the discovery of the possibility of education 
for the deaf was almost contemporaneous with the dis- 
covery of America. The first instance in history of a 
deaf-mute who learned to read and write was that recorded 
by Rodolphus Agricola (Roelof Huisman), who lived from 
1443 to 1485.* Who this deaf-mute was, who his teacher, 
and how he was taught, we are not told. Juan Luis 
Vives {De Anima, 1538) marvelled at Agricola's story, 
for it seemed to him an impossibility that one deprived of 
the sense of instruction, as Aristotle called the sense of 
hearing, should be taught to read and write. 

But while Vives, in deference to the authority of Aris- 
totle, who at that time was regarded as infallible, hesitated 
to accept Agricola's testimony, the brilliant Girolamo 
Cardano, of Milan (1501-1576), following the guidance 
of his own reason in preference even to the authoi'ity of 
" the Master of those who know," was led to the truth. 
Cardano not only declared that the instruction of deaf-mutes 
was possible, though difficult, but also stated clearly and 
accurately the principle on which it depends ; namely, that 
ideas can be associated directly with written words without 
the intervention of sound, and so " the deaf-mute can hear 
by reading and speak by writing." t While we teachers and 

* Qua in re ut miraeula transeam, quee vidi, surdum a primis vitse 
annis, et (quod oonsequens est) mutum, didicisse tamen ut qusecumque 
scriberet aliquis, iutelligeret, et ipse quoque tamquam loqui sciret 
omnia mentis su» cogitata perscribere posset. — De Inventione Dialectica 
(Paris, 1538), Lib. Ill, cap. 16, p. 443. 

t As Cardano's books are rare, and his precise words are not quoted in 
any American work relating to the deaf, it seems worth while to give the 
most important passages here. They are taken from a copy of his Opera 
(London, 1663) in the Library of Harvard University : 

" Sunt autem surdorum tria genera. Quidam enim sunt a nativitate 
tales : de quibus nunc agere propositum non est. Sunt enim hi omnes 
etiam muti : nam cum discamus audiendo loqui, qui audire non possunt, 



vi 



Introduction. 



friends of the deaf join the multitude in honoring the dis- 
coverer of the western continent, let us also pay our 
tribute of respect to this less renowned fellow-countryman 
of his, whose discovery of the theory of instructing the 
deaf opened to them a new world vaster and richer than 
any continent — the illimitable world of the mind. 

The seed sown by Cardano was slow in springing up 
and bearing fruit. In the great intellectual progress of 
the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries the deaf had but 
a scanty share. A few fortunate individuals among them, 
singly or in groups of two or three, were taught by Ponce, 

nec loqui etiam. Alii, postquam orti sunt, surdi fiunt, sed antequam 
loqui discant. Atque hi pari conditione muti evadunt, ut non sint a 
prioribus dissimiles : quamobrem et sub uno genere atque tractatione 
continentur. Eeliqui sunt, qui surdi fiunt postquam aut loqui tantum 
aut scribere etiam didicerunt : atque de bis sermonem nunc habere insti- 
tuimus. * * * 

" Verum si, antequam legere ac scribere didieerit, surdus efficiatur, quid 
agere ilium miserum oportebit ? Crimen quidem hoc est, cum deceat 
discere simal et loqui et scribere et legere. Sed sit parentum hoc crimen, 
quid modo faciendum '{ Oportet ut discat scribere ac legere : id enim licet, 
velut ut Cffico, ut facere alibi docuimus. Ardua est res. sed quam tamen 
etiam natus surdus efficere possit. * * * Si loqui didicisti, rogare 
potes ut commonstrent tibi arcana qute sunt circa artes. Sunt autem, 
ut dixi, in singulis plurima. Possunt vero ea tibi signis, non secus ac 
verbis, commonstrari. Constat sane Romas mimos fuisse, qui barbaro 
regi ita omnia gestu exi)rimerent, ut cum duos ex his petiisset ab impera- 
tore, acceptos pro maximo muuere habuerit. Sed et res ipsas et scripta 
circa vocis sonum Uteris hieroglyphicis, quemadmodum olim, repraesen- 
tare licet. 

' ' Verum ut etiam de primo surdi tatis genere, quod ab ortu aut paulo post 
contingit, loquar. annon tota infantia surdi sumus ac muti, minusque 
sensibus robore ae mente valemus 'i Attamen nullus tunc infelix est eo 
ipso, quin artes unusquisque proprias discat. Deum itaque surdi mutique 
venerantur et colunt ; et, quia mentis sunt partieipes, nihil est quod pro- 
hibeat quominiis in artibus elegantiora et politiora ojjera perficiant, et 
sibi ipsi magis vivant, unde omnibus, ut et ob morum elegantiam, majore 
sunt in admiratione. Memini me quosdam surdos ac mutos uovisse, qui 
cum prineipibus aliisque proceribus inservirent, eisdem erant grati, 
minusque turbre ab illis excitabatur in aula, miuus et ipsi ab aliis infes- 
tabantur. In universum, cui mens non deest, eidem nihil tam magnvim 
videtur deesse posse quod mentis auxilio eomparari non queat." — De Sur- 
ditate. cap. 7 (Vol. II, pp. 73-75). 

' ' Ref ert Georgius Agricola in tertio suo libro de Inventione Dialectica 
vidisse hominem natum surdum etmutum, qui legere et scribere didieerit, 
sic ut significaret quae vellet. Atque ita possumus efficere, ut mutus le- 
gendo audiat, etscribendo loquatur: nam ex cogitationememoria comj^re- 
hendit, quod panis, gratia exempli, rem illam qure editur, significat. 
Legit itaque ratione velut in pictura : per earn enim, licet ad voces nou 
referatur, non solum res sed actiones et successus declarantur. Et ut 
ex pictura visa picturam aliam effingere sub ratione etiam significati 
licet, ita etiam in Uteris. Ut enim vocis differentise ex pacto significant 
res, ita rerum aut dictionum figurie variffi. "— Para^tpoyneftc^ft, Lib. Ill, 
cap. 8 (Vol. X, p. 462). 



Introduction. 



vii 



Bonet, and Carrion, in Spain; Wallis, Holder, and Baker, 
in England; Van Helmont and Amman, in Holland; 
Pasche, Kerger, Raphel, and Lasius, in Germany ; Fay, 
Pereire, and Vanin, in France. Some of these teachers, 
as Bonet, Wallis, and Amman, as well as other men of the 
period who were not teachers, especially Dalgarno in 
Scotland, published treatises on the subject which are still 
of practical value. But while the achievements of these 
teachers demonstrated the truth of the theory propounded 




by Cardano nearly four ceutui'ies ago, it is only within 
the last century and a half that the human conscience has 
been aroused to the duty of putting the theory into prac- 
tice for the benefit of the deaf generally. The first great 
impulse in this direction was given by the benevolent and 
disinterested Abbe de TF^pee, whose school for the deaf, 
established at Paris about 1760, speedily became famous 
throughout Europe. At nearly the same time, independ- 
ently of De I'Epee and of each other, schools were begun 



viii 



Introduction. 



by Samuel Heinicke in Dresden, and Thomas Braidwood 
in Edinburgh. Heinicke's school a few years later was 
removed to Leipsic. 

As the successful results of the instruction given in 
these schools became known, similar schools were estab- 
lished in other cities and countries, and they have con- 
tinued to increase in number to the present time. Their 
growth and progress have been greatest during the past 




WILLIAM THOKNTON. 

(Prom a ■painting hy Gilbert C. Stuart, by permi8»i/m of the United 
States Ctrtmnitsioner of Patents.) 



fifty years. In the year 1836, according to a list published 
in the Quatrieme Circulaire of the Paris Institution, there 
were 134 schools for the deaf in the world. A list pub- 
lished in the American Annals of the Deaf ien years ago 
named 397 schools then in existence, and there are now 
about 425. In the United States fifty years ago there 
were only six schools, and in Canada and Mexico none ;* 



* A school had been begun in Quebec in 1831, but had been suspended 
five years later. 



Introduction. 



ix 



in the following pages are given the histories of 79 schools 
now existing in the United States, seven in Canada, and 
one in Mexico. The number of pupils in attendance at 
these schools on the 15tli day of November last was 7,940 
in the United States, 682 in Canada, and 34 in Mexico. 

The first publication in America urging the importance 
of instructing the deaf appeared precisely one hundred 
years ago. It was an essay by Dr. William Thornton, the 
first head of the United States Patent Office, and the 




FllANCIS GUEEN. 

(From a painting by J, C'm'c'i, Im pc riii iHsicrn of Commander Francis 
M. Green. U. S. N.) 



architect of the first Capitol at Washington, " On Teach- 
ing the Surd, or Deaf, and Consequently Dumb, to Speak." 
It was published in the Transactions of the American 
Philosophical Society, Volume III (Philadelphia, 1793). 

Ten years earlier, however, an American had published 
a book on the subject in England. This was Francis 
Green, born in Boston, Massachusetts, in 1742, and the 
book, published anonymously, was entitled " Yox Oculls 
Suhjecta, by a Parent " (London, 1783). Mr. Green had 



X 



Introduction. 



a son educated at Braidwood's school, and he wished the 
benefits of instruction to be extended to other deaf chil- 
dren. Eeturning afterwards to America, and residing at 
Medford, near Boston, he endeavored by frequent contri- 
butions to the Boston papers, especially the New England 
Palladium, and by personal correspondence with influen- 
tial men, to arouse the interest and sympathy of the pub- 
lic. In the year 1803, with the aid of the clergy of Mas- 
sachusetts, he gathered returns of the numbers of the deaf 
in that State, finding about seventy, and estimating that 
there were five hundred in the United States. 

The first effort to give instruction to the deaf in America 
was made by the Rev. John Stanford, in New York, about 
the year 1810. It is described in the History of the New 
York Institution in the present volume. The unsuccess- 
ful attempts made two j^ears later by John Braidwood, Jr., 
a grandson of the founder of the Edinburgh school, to 
establish schools in Virginia and in New York are de- 
scribed in the histories of the Virginia and New York In- 
stitutions. Braidwood also attempted to found a school 
in Baltimore, Maryland, but failed there for the same rea- 
son as in Virginia and New York. 

These earlier efi^orts in behalf of the deaf in America, 
though they seem to have come to nought, are of great 
interest, for they show that the idea of instruction was in 
the air, and that the fulness of time for the woi'k to begin 
was at hand. And though it may now be impossible to 
trace any direct connection between these efforts and the 
establishment of the permanent schools a little later* 
(except that a letter of Francis Green's, Avritten in 1781 
and printed twenty-four years afterwards in the Medical 
Repository , was read at the first public meeting in behalf 
of the education of the deaf in New York, and that Mr. 



* Indeed, the immediate effect of Braidwood's attempts was to hinder 
and delay the opening of the first permanent school ; for the members of 
his family in Great Britain, who controlled the monopoly of deaf-mute 
instruction there, wishing to create a similar monopoly iu America, placed 
obstacles in the way of Dr. Gallaudet when he sought to acquire the art 
of instruction in the mother country. 



Introduction. 



xiii 



Stanford became one of the founders of the New York 
Institution), yet it is not improbable that they all, and 
especially Mr. Green's eloquent appeals, by arousing 
public interest in the education of the deaf, had con- 
siderable influence in preparing the way for the work that 
followed. 

An incident which had a more direct and momentous 
connection with this work was the meeting, early in the 
second decade of the century, of Thomas Hopkins Gal- 
laudet, a student of theology at Andover, Massachusetts, 
with Alice Cogswell, the deaf daughter of his father's 
neighbor at Hartford, Connecticut, Dr. Mason F. Cogswell. 
It occurred when young Gallaudet was at home on a visit 
during one of the vacations of his theological school. 
Noticing little Alice one day as she was playing in his 
father's garden with his younger brothers and sisters, "the 
only voiceless one among them," his interest was deeply 
aroused. He at once attempted to converse with and 
instruct her, and in this first interview gave her the initial 
lesson."" Afterwards, as opportunity offered in his vaca- 
tions, he imparted further instruction, so that when, a few 
years later, Dr. Cogswell and his associates determined to 
establish a school for the deaf, it was to Dr. Gallaudet, as 
the person best fitted to undertake the work, that their 
minds immediately turned. With the opening of this 
school at Hartford, in 1817, the actual history of American 
Schools for the Deaf begins. The story of that school, 
and of the others that have since arisen, is told in the fol- 
lowing pages. 

The first suggestion of this collection of histories was 
made in the Deaf-Modes' Journal of December 1, 1893. 
On the 22d of that month the Superintendent of the Volta 
Bureau issued the following circular : 

* This incident is commemorated in the Gallaudet Memorial Statue at 
Kendall Green, Washington, D. C, a picture of which is given on the 
opposite page. The statue, a beautful work in bronze by Daniel E. 
French, was presented to the National Deaf-Mute College in 1889, by the 
deaf people of the whole country, in grateful remembrance of their 
Friend, Teacher, and Benefactor, the Founder of Deaf-Mute Instruction 
in America. 



xiv 



Tnt7'odnction. 



VOLTA BUEEAU, 

Washington, D. C, December 22, 1892. 

A desire having been expressed in different quarters that the Volta 
Bureau should collect, and issue in one or more volumes, for the occasion 
of the World's Columbian Exposition, the histories of all schools and in- 
stitutions for the education of the deaf in America, the Volta Bureau is 
disposed to carry out this idea, provided it can be assured of the hearty 
co-operation of superintendents and principals. 

With a view to have such histories serve as a correct index of present 
conditions and facilities, it is desired that each school and institution 
prepare and print its ovy^n history according to a somewhat uniform plan 
as to character of contents and size of publication. The latter should 
conform, as nearly as can be, to the dimensions of the pages of the Amei'i- 
can Annah of the Deaf (9 x b\ inches ; printed matter, including run- 
ning title, 7 X 3| inches). Of these separate histories this Bureau should 
be furnished with two thousand copies by the first of February next. 

Schools and institutions not having printing facilities of their own 
coiild have the printing done elsewhere, and schools which have no means 
whatever available to have the printing done at their own expense can 
send the MS. of the history of their school to the Volta Bureau, which, 
in such exceptional cases, will itself attend to the printing. 

Among other things, it is desirable — 

1. That each history embrace, if possible, engravings and plans of the 
school or institution, as well as portraits of its present superintendent 
and principal. If these are not available for publication, single drawings 
and photographs of the aforenamed should be sent for preservation in 
the archives of this Bureau. 

2. A complete list of its teachers and employees and of its directors or 
board of managers on the first of January, 1893. 

3. A chronological list of all its superintendents or principals. 

4. A chronological list of all its journals and other publications. 

5. A list and brief statement of purpose of all societies of the deaf in 
the institution or locality, with names of officers. 

6. A brief mention of any preceding schools or institutions no longer 
existing in the locality or known to have existed within the State or Ter- 
ritory. 

7. Tabulated statistics of all kinds. 

Each institution or school supplying the Bureau with material for this 
work will receive a complimentary copy of the same. The remainder of 
the edition, after supplying, at cost, teachers and individuals interested 
in the education of the deaf who may subscribe for the work, will be ju- 
diciously distributed among the libraries of all nations as a work of refer- 
ence. 

Please inform this Bureau if you will co-operate in carrying out the 
proposed jjlan to the extent of supplying the requisite history of your 
school or institution, either in print as indicated, or vH manuscript, pre- 
pared by yourself or by some person designated by you. And, further- 
more, kindly state how many, if any, extra copies of the work you wish 
to secure for your teachers and others by subscription. 



Introduction, 



* 

XV 



If this project meets with the approval of the majority of your col- 
leagues it will be at once taken in hand by the Volta Bureau, and the 
work will be issued in proper form (unless unavoidably delayed) by the 
date of the opening of the World's Columbian Exposition. 

Soliciting an early reply, I am, sincerely yours, 

JOHN HITZ, 

Superintendent. 

On the 6th of January, 1893, a sufficient number of 
principals and superintendents having signified their ap- 
proval of the plan and promised their co-operation, the 
work was fully decided upon. It has been carried for- 
ward as rapidly as possible on the general plan suggested 
in the circular, with the supplementary addition of the 
histories of several organizations not schools, designed to 
promote the education of the deaf, a list of American peri- 
odicals published for the benefit of the deaf, an alpha- 
betical list, derived mostly from the school histories, 
of the names and addresses of American instructors of the 
deaf, and a list of the publications of the Volta Bureau. 

The histories of the American, New York, Pennsylva- 
nia, Kentucky, Ohio, Indiana, Tennessee, Illinois, South 
Carolina, Missouri, Wisconsin, Michigan, Iowa, Texas, 
Columbia, Alabama, California, Kansas, Minnesota, Clarke, 
Arkansas, Maryland, Nebraska, St. Joseph's, West Vir- 
ginia, Colorado, Chicago, Western Pennsylvania, Western 
New York, New England Industrial, South Dakota, Penn- 
sylvania Oral, New Jersey, Utah, Texas Colored, Montreal 
Catholic (Male and Female), Ontario and Manitoba 
schools were printed by the respective schools — most of 
them by their own pupils ; those of the other schools, which 
lacked the necessary means or facilities, have been printed 
by the Volta Bureau. The History of the Wisconsin 
System of Public Day-Schools was printed by the Wis- 
consin Phonological Institute. No doubt greater uniform- 
ity and elegance of appearance, and, by reason of contin- 
uous paging, greater convenience of reference would have 
been attained if all the histories had been printed at one 
press ; but in that case the collection would have been 
deprived of the interest and value which now attaches to 
a large part of it as the handiwork of the pupils. 



xvi 



Introduction. 



The histories were nearly all prepared by the heads of 
the schools, or by persons designated by them. In some 
cases where the writers had been the principal actors in 
the events described, and their modesty deterred them 
from recording fully their own achievements, we must 
read between the lines in order to give credit where it is 
justly due. 

It was gratifying to the editor to find that twelve of the 
histories were written wholly or partly by persons whom 
he had formerly had the pleasure of teaching in the Na- 
tional Deaf-Mute College. Five were written by grad- 
uates of other American schools for the deaf, so that, in- 
tellectually as well as mechanically, the histories represent 
to a considerable extent the work of the deaf themselves. 

The portraits of the heads of schools were included with 
the histories, at the urgent request of the Volta Bureau. 

If the time allowed for preparation had been longer, 
many of the histories could have been made more com- 
plete, and greater unity and harmony in the mode of treat- 
ment could have been secured ; but it is hoped that the 
work, as it is, fully accomplishes the purpose aimed at by 
the Volta Bureau, which was to give a clear and truthful 
presentation of the American Schools for the Deaf as they 
exist at the present time, and to place on record in a per- 
manent form the most important events of their past his- 
tory. 

EDWAED ALLEN FAY. 

National Deaf-Mtjte College, 

Kendall Green, 
Washington, D. C, May 1, 1893. 



CONTENTS OF VOLUME I. 



Preface, Hon. John Hitz. 

Introduction, The Editor. 

Histories of Public Schools for the Deaf in the United States, 
Established 1817-1854. 

Article. 



I. 






II. 


The New York Institution, . 


f E. H. Currier, M. A. 
" ■ ' ( Thomas F. Fox, M. A. 


III. 


The Pennsylvania Institution, 


. . . H. Van Allen, B. A. 


IV. 






V. 






VI. 






VII. 






VIII. 






IX. 


The North Carolina Institution, 




X. 


The Illinois Institution, . . . 


. Philip G. Gillett, LL. D. 


XI. 


Tlie Georgia School, . . . . 


W. 0. Connor. 


XII. 


The South Carolina Institution, 


. . . Newton F. Walker. 


XIII. 






XIV. 


The Wisconsin School, . . . 


Edward E. Clippinger, M. A. 


XV. 


The Louisiana School 


E. Lorraine Tract, B. A. 


XVI. 







xvii 



PUBLIC SCH 
UNITED 
ESTABLISH 



OOLS IN THE 

STATES 
ED 1817-1854. 



1 




A 



BRIEF HISTORY 

OF THE 

AMERICAN ASYLUM, 



AT HARTFORD, ' 

FOR TIIR 

Education and Instruction 

OF TH13 

DEAF AND DUMB. 



HARTFORD, CONN.: 
Press of The Case, Lockwood & BRAnsiARo Company. 
1893. 



BOAED OF DIEECTOES. 



January 1 , 1 893. 



PRESIDENT. 

Hon. FRANCIS B. COOLEY. 



VICE-PKESIDENTS. 

ROLAND MATHER, JONATHAN B. BUNCE, 

NATHANIEL SHIPMAN, ROWLAND SWIFT, 

JOHN C. PARSONS, JOHN C. DAY, 

PINCKNEY W. ELLSWORTH, WILLIAM M. HUDSON. 



DmECTORS. 



FRANK W. CHENEY, 
SAMUEL N. KELLOGG, 
DANIEL R. HOWE, 
LUCIUS A. BARBOUR, 
ATWOOD COLLINS, 



(By Election.) 

WILLIAM L. MATSON, 
JAMES B. CONE, 
CHARLES H. CLARK, 
WILLIAM W. HYDE, 
ARCHIBALD A. WELCH. 



Ex Officio. 

The GovEBNOiiB and Secretaries of each of the New England 

States. 



SECRETARY. 

ATWOOD COLLINS. 



TREASURER. 

DANIEL R. HOWE. 

DIRECTING COMMITTEE. 

ATWOOD COLLINS, Chairman, 
JOHN C. PARSONS, JONATHAN B. BUNCE. 



OFFICERS AND TEACHERS. 



January 1 , 1 893. 



PRINCIPAL. 

JOB WILLIAMS, M.A., L.H.D. 

INSTRUCTORS. 

GILBERT O. FAY, Ph.D., MARY A. MANN, 

ABEL 8. 'CLARK, M.A., CAROLINE C. SWEET, 

WILLIAM G. JENKINS, M.A , IDA V. HAMMOND, 

GEORGE F. STONE, JANE B. KELLOGG, 

WILLIAM H. WEEKS, LUCY S. WILLIAMS, 

JOHN E. CRANE, B.A., LUCY H. WILLIAMS. 

TEACHERS OF ARTICULATION. 

MARY ALLEN, 
ADELIA C. FAY, 
ELIZABETH FAY, 
ALLYS E. TYLER. 

SFBCLiL TEACHER OF DEAF MUTE AND BLIND PUPIL. 

FLORA L. NOYES. 

TEACHER OF DRAWING. 

SOLON P. DAVIS. 

INSTRUCTOR IN GYMNASTICS. 

KATHERINE F. SMITH. 

ATTENDING PHYSICIAN. 

GEORGE W. AVERY, M.D. 

STEWARD. 

WM. P. WILLIAMS. 

SUPERVISORS. 

LESTER A. HOLT, 
FRANK W. WOOD, 
HELEN M. WEBSTER. 

MATRON. 

Miss MARGARET GREENLAW. 

ASSISTANT MATRONS. 

Mrs. MARY A. WAITE, 
Miss ELIZA GREEN. 

NOAH A. SMITH, Master of the Cabinet Shop. 
WILLIAM B. FLAGG, Master of the Shoe Shop. 



PRINCIPALS. 





Elected. 


Ketired. 


THOMAS H. GALLAUDET, . 


1817, 


1830. 


LEWIS WELD 


1830, 


1853. 


WILLIAM W. TURNER, . 


1853, 


1863. 


COLLINS STONE, 


1863, 


1870. 


EDWARD C. STONE, . 


1871, 


1878. 


JOB WILLIAMS, .... 


1879. 





^^^^ '^^l^^^iZ^.fiU^^ 



THE 



AMERICAN ASYLUM 

At Hartford, 

FOR THE 

EDUCATION AND INSTRUCTION OF THE DEAF AND DUMB, 



In the year 1807 Alice, the youngest daughter of Mason 
F. Cogswell, M.D., of Hartford, Conn., a man eminent in his 
profession and in philanthropic works, became deaf through 
scarlet fever. Anxious for the education of this beloved 
child, Dr. Cogswell appealed to the General Association of 
the Congregational Clergymen of Connecticut to aid him in 
ascertaining the number of persons in the State afflicted in 
like manner, and at a meeting of the association, held at 
Sharon, in June, 1812, it was reported by a committee 
previously appointed for the purpose, that there were eighty- 
four deaf and dumb persons within the limits of the State. 
If a like proportion of deaf-dumbness existed in other States 
there were probably four hundred such persons in New Eng- 
land, and in all the United States about two thousand. Surely 
enough of these must be of school age to sustain a good 
school on this side of the Atlantic. 

Bringing these facts to the attention of his wealthy and in- 
fluential friends, Dr. Cogswell succeeded in interesting them 
in the project of establishing a school for their education. 

On the 13th ot April, 1815, the following gentlemen met 
by invitation at his house, viz. : " Ward "Woodbridge, Esq., 
Daniel Wadsworth, Esq., Henry Hudson, Esq., Hon. Nathan- 
iel Terry, John Caldwell, Esq., Daniel Buck, Esq., Joseph 
Battell, Esq. (of Norfolk), Rev. Nathan Strong, D.D., and 
Rev. Thos. H. Gallaudet." After prayer by Dr. Strong in- 
voking the Divine blessing upon their deliberations, and 
after a full discussion of the practicability of sending some 
suitable person to Europe to study the art of instructing the 



10 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 




-deaf and dumb, Dr. Cogswell and Mr. Woodbridge were ap- 
pointed a committee to ascertain the name of some suitable 
person, who would consent to go, and to obtain subscrip- 
tions to defray his expenses. In one day Mr. Woodbridge, 
who was one of the leading business men of Hartford, raised 
sufficient funds for the purpose. The Eev. Thos. H. Gallau- 
det, a graduate of Yale College and of Andover Theological 
Seminary, was solicited to make the journey and fit himself 
to take up the new enterprise. On the 15th of April, 1815, 
he signified to the committee his willingness to do so, and on 
the ,25th , day of May he sailed for Europe. It is not neces- 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 




sary in this brief history to recount the story so often told of 
the obstacles encountered by Mr. Gallaudet in England and 
Scotland in his endeavor to acquire the method of instruction 
in use there, and of the open-armed hospitality extended to 
him by the Abbe De I'Epee at Paris, where every facility 
was afforded him to accomplish the purpose for which lie had 
crossed the Atlantic. Having secured as his assistant Lau- 
rent Clerc, who had been a brilliant pupil and, later, a teacher 
in the Royal Institution for the Deaf and Dumb at Paris, 
Mr. Gallaudet returned to New York August 10, 1816. 
These two spent the following eight months in visiting 
prominent places throughout the country to obtain subscrip- 
tions and to interest the general public in the cause of deaf- 
mute education, the accomplished deaf-mute exciting univer- 
sal wonder and admiration. 



12 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



While Mr. Gallaudet was abroad, friends at home were 
active in forwarding the project. At the session of the Geji- 
eral Assembly of Connecticut, held at Hartford, in May, 
1816, an act of incorporation was passed in accordance with 
the petition of sixty -three citizens of Hartford, who, with 
their associates, were by it " formed into, constituted, and 
made a body politic and corporate by the name of the Con- 
necticut Asylum for the Education and Instruction of Deaf 
and Dumb Persons, with the rights and powers usually 
granted to incorporations for educational purposes." 




Connecticut Asylum, 1817. 



Under this charter the school was opened at Hartford, 
April 15, 1817, with seven pupils, increasing within a year to 
thirty-three, the first permanent school for the education of 
deaf-mutes in America. 

In other countries, schools of this class had been sustained 
entirely by private charity, and had had only transient means 
of support. The founders of the school at Hartford, while 
availing themselves of private charity to put it in operation. 



AMEKICAN ASYLUM. 



13 



and demonstrate' the need of it, and its ability to naeet that 
need, at once set to work to put it on a reliable basis of sup- 
port. In October, 1816, the Tiegislature of Connecticut was 
appealed to for aid and made an appropriation of five thousand 
dollars. In 1819, the Congress of the United States, under a 
motion made by Henry Clay, gave to the school twenty-three 
thousand acres of public land, and with the proceeds of the 
sale of this land grounds were secured, suitable buildings 
erected, and a permanent fund provided. In 1819, Massa- 
chusetts provided by legislative appropriation for the education 




Amkkican Asylum, 1821. 



of twenty indigent pupils here. In 1825, New Hampshire 
and Vermont adopted the same policy of educating their 
deaf-mute children here at the expense of the State. Other 
States soon followed this good example. Thus, through the 
efforts of the founders of this school the humane, just, and 
wise policy of educating deaf-mutes at the public expense was 
firmly established in this conntr}', and has been adopted by 
almost every State in the Union. In some of the Western 
States means for the education of deaf-mutes are secured by 
constitutional provision. This has put the schools for deaf- 



14 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



mutes in the United States on a better basis, financially, tliau 
those in any other part of tlie world. 

An unfortunate impression has prevailed that the institu- 
tion is provided with abundant funds for carrying on its 
work. Such is not the case. Since the grant made by Con- 
gress in 1819, gifts and bequests liave been very few and 
scanty. By far the largest was that of tlie late Morris 
Mattson, M.D.,of New York, who became interested in the 
school through his deaf-mute sister's connection with it, and 
made it his residuary legatee. To the disadvantage of the 
institution in its present needs, his example has not been 
followed. 

STANDARD FOR TEACHERS. 

The first Principal of this school, the Rev. Thomas H. 
Gallaudet, was a man of liberal education, broad culture, and 
rare tact and pantomimic skill. Realizing the difficulties 
of deaf-mute education and the requirements for success in 
it, he called about him, as assistant teachers, men of similar 
qualifications and fit to be his co-laborers, in working out by 
correction, revision, and expansion of the French system a 
new, American system of instruction. Thanks to the wise 
conservatism of its managers, the standard of qualifications 
for a teacher of deaf-mutes at the outset of the work in this 
country has been steadily maintained here, and to it may be 
attributed in no small degree the prestige which this school 
has ever enjoyed. Twenty-nine graduates of Yale College, 
besides graduates of other colleges, have been enrolled in its 
corps of instructors. For a long time this school served as a 
normal school for the training of teachers to take charge of 
the new schools springing up. Every new teacher entering 
upon the work of instruction here, as well as those from other 
schools resorting to it to acquire the system of instruction, 
took a regular course of lessons in the sign language from Mr. 
Clerc, the living embodiment of the French system, and each 
paid him fifty dollars therefor. The high standard set for the 
country at the beginning, and the endeavor to live up to it, 
liave secured results in the education of deaf-mutes which 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



15 



liave caused American schools for the deaf to be universally 
acknowledged to be the best of their kind in the world. 

MANUAL TRAINING. 

Mental discipline and acquirements are but a part of the 
good to be derived from the school course. Manual training, 
now beginning to be considered an essential part of school 
training for all children, is doubly so for deaf-mutes. For 
their future welfare it is not only necessary that they should 
form habits of industry, but that every boy should learn how 
to care for and use tools, and acquire at least the rudiments 
of a trade, that he may be able to compete successfully witli 
those favored with hearing. 

Yery early in the history of this school this need was 
recognized, and a plan was adopted of making manual train- 
ing a requisite part of the education of its pupils. Instruc- 
tion in this new department was begun in 1822, and in the 
following year two large and convenient workshops were 
erected. From that day to this, manual training has been a 
part of the instruction of every able-bodied boy — rich and 
poor alike — passing through his school course here. Habits 
of industry are invaluable, and they should be acquired at the 
formative period of life. It is of much less importance what 
one learns to do, than that one should learn to do promptly 
and well whatever one undertakes. "With industrious habits, 
a trained eye, a skilled hand, and cultivated judgment, one 
may acquire a new trade with comparative ease, but where 
all these are wanting, to start on any new line of work is a 
difficult task. 

Bo^'s receive instruction in cabinet-making and shoe-mak- 
ing. Until 1892, there was a tailor's shop also. Most of the 
girls learn to sew and to do some of the lighter parts of house 
work. 

In the cabinet-shop the boys learn how to use wood-work- 
ing tools, and when they have finished their school course, 
they find it comparatively easy to secure employment in car- 
penter shops, in furniture establishments, or in any other occu- 
pation in which that class of tools is used. Those who return 



16 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



to farm life find the knowledge which they have obtained in 
this branch of instruction valuable in saving the cost of 
repairs and in the manufacture of many needed and useful 
articles. The cabinet-shop is supplied with power for the 
turning-lathe and heavy sawing, but the rest of the work 
here, as all of that in the shoe-shop, is performed by hand, as 
the object is not to turn off a large amount of work, but to 
teach boys the use and proper care of tools. 

Shoe-making has proved a useful trade for many boys, as 
it requires very little capital. One can start in the trade 
almost anywhere, and very seldom does a good cobbler fail to 
find sufficient work to make a comfortable living. 

Drawing is carefully taught in order to cultivate the hand 
and the ej'e, and as a preparation for understanding working 
plans in the mechanical arts, and as laying the foundation 
for designing and other art work with those who show special 
talent in those lines. 

An extensive inquiry made, in 1886, among former pupils 
of the school, showed them engaged at that time as follows : 





MEN. 




1 Artist, 


1 


Casket-maker, 


3 Bakers, 


1 


Casket-trimmer. 


1 Basket-maker, 


1 


Draughtsman, 


1 Belt-maker, 


1 


Dyer, 


1 Blacksmith, 


3 


Editors, 


1 Boatman, 


70 


Farmers, 


1 Boat-builder, 


1 


Fireman, 


1 Book-agent, 


3 


Fishermen, 


2 Book-binders, 


1 


Foreman in warehouse. 


1 Brakeman, 


1 


Foundryman, 


1 Brass-molder, 


3 


Furniture-makers, 


1 Brass-worker, 


1 


Furniture-polisher, 


1 Bricklayer, 


1 


Glass-cutter, 


.5 Burnishers, 


1 


Glue-maker, 


2 Chair-makers, 


2 


Hatters, 


1 Cigar-maker, 


1 


Hostler, 


1 Clerk in drug store, 


1 


Ice-dealer, 


1 Clerk in post-office, 


1 


Janitor, 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



IT 



1 Clerk in Treasury Depart- 
ment, 

3 Clergymen, ordained, 
1 Cooper. 
6 Clock-makers, . 
1 Clock-case maker, , 

1 Copyist, 

2 Cutters in shoe-shop, 
12 Cabinet-makers, 

1 Capitalist,* 

1 Car-maker, 
17 Carpenters, 

2 Carriage-makers, 

1 Carriage-painter, 

2 Cartridge-makers, 
1 Oysterman, 

1 Pail-maker, 
8 Painters, 

1 Paper-ruler (by machine), 
1 Patent-lawyer, 

1 Pattern-maker, 

2 Peddlers, 

1 Picture-frame maker, 

3 Piano-case makers, 
1 Plough-maker, 

1 Pocket-book maker, 

5 Printers, 

1 Quarryman, 

1 Rubber-stamp maker, 

1 Rule-maker, 

5 Sash and blind makers, 

2 Saw-mill tenders, 
1 Shoe dealer, 

20 Shoemakers, 



1 Jeweler, 

3 Joiners, 

7 Laborers, 

1 Lamp-trimmer, 

1 Last-maker, 

3 Lock-makers, 

2 Masons, 

4 Machinists, 

20 Mechanics, 
] Merchant, 

21 Mill operatives, 
1 Mill-wright, 

1 Monument sculptor, 

3 Nail-makers, 

1 Organ-case maker, 

27 Shoe factory operatives, 

1 Shuttle-maker, 

1 Spool -turner, 

1 Stair-builder, 

2 Stone-cutters, 

1 Silver-metal scourer, 

8 Tanners, 
15 Teachers, 

2 Tin-smiths, 
1 Tool-maker, 

1 Toy-maker, 

2 Upholsterers, 
1 Varnisher, 

1 Wagon-maker, 

1 Watch-maker, 

4 Wire-drawers, 
6 Wood-carvers, 

2 Wool-sorters. 



WOMEN. 

1 Book-stitcher, 27 Mill operatives, 

2 Cartridge-makers, 5 Seamstresses, 

* This man has made his fortune, is a director and the largest stockholder of a flourishing 
insurance company. 
2 



18 



AMERICAN ASYMUM. 



1 Corset-maker, 3 Shoe factory operatives, 

1 Dressmaker, 1 Supervisor of girls in school 

2 Hair-braiders, for deaf-mutes, 

1 Matron in a school for deaf- 2 Tailoresses, 

mutes, 6 Teachers. 

2 Matrons, Assistant, in a 

school for deaf-mutes, 

A large number of the women are married and have homes 
of their own. Many others hve with their parents, and are 
useful and efficient members of the household. Of these two 
classes no note is made in the above list of occupations. 

WAGES. 

As a rule the wages reported are not inferior to those 
earned by others in the same kinds of work, and some are re- 
ceiving wages above the average. 

One shoemaker earns $125.00 per month on an average, 
others report an average of $60.00 per month, others $40.00 
per month, and the lowest reported in that trade is $1.00 a 
day — the wages of boys little more than half way through 
their teens. 

One weaver earns $53.00 a month, others $40.00, others 
$30.00 to $35.00. 

Carpenters generally i-eport wages of $2.00 a day. 

Cabinet-makers earn from $1.25 to $2.25 a day. 

One mechanic earns from $75.00 to $80.00 per month. 

Clock-makers report wages varying from $1.25 to $3.00 per 
day for piece work. 

Burnishers report wages varying from $1.25 to $5.00 per 
day for piece work. 

Teachers receive wages which will not compare unfavor- 
ably with the wages paid for teaching the same grades of 
classes in the profession genei-ally, the highest salary reported 
being $1800. 

The patent lawyer, in a competitive examination for the 
chief examinership in the patent office, received the highest 
mark, but being debarred from that office by his infirmity, he 
entered upon the practice of patent law, in which he has 
gained a lucrative practice. 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



19 



It will be seen by a glance at the list given above, that 
there is a great variety in the occupations of former pupils. 
Comparatively fevs^ of them have followed the trades learned 
at school, bat all have carried with them the trained hand and 
eye, the cultivated judgment, and the industrious habits ac- 
quired. In no case have they found these a hindrance to 
their advancement, but, rather, on the foundations thus laid 
they have built their success. There is nothing degrading, 
or belittling, in the acquirement of any honest handicraft. 
The false impression that there was has started many a young 
man on his way to the almshouse or the jail. Honest indus- 
try of any kind is honorable. Voluntary idleness is degrad- 
ing, whether it be found among the rich or the poor, among 
the learned or the ignorant. 

The plan of manual training first put into operation here 
has been adopted by nearly every school for deaf-mutes in the 
country, and to it may be attributed in no small degree the 
fact that a deaf-mute pauper or vagrant from among gradu- 
ates is rarely found, though impostors not infrequently assume 
the role of deaf-mutes that they more readily may work upon 
the sympathies of the public and so procure the means of 
living without labor. As a class, the country through, deaf- 
mute graduates are honest, industrious, thrifty, and respected 
citizens, and not a few of them have brought up l^milies of 
hearing children, who have risen to positions of influence and 
honor. 

AGE OF ADMISSION. 

In the early years of the school the time allowed to the 
beneficiaries of the several States was very short, and that 
the pupils might be able to accomplish the most in the time 
allowed, the age of admission was set high, as the following 
extract from the twenty-seventh annual report will show : 

" Those children who were to receix,e no aid from any public body, and 
whose term of instruction was therefore not limited, like that of benefi- 
ciaries, have always been admitted to the Asylum at the age of ten years, 
if their friends desire it ; and in a few cases they have been taken at an 
earlier age, because, it was presumed, that if five years were not sufficient, 
they would be kept still longer under instruction. But for the larger 



20 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



class of its pupils, the Asylum, in view of the whole subject, and after 
much consideration, lixed upon fourteen years at first, and afterwards 
upon twelve, as the best time for the commencement of their education. 
This course was adopted in accordance with the views and wishes of a 
most respectable board of commissioners, appointed by the legislatures of 
Massachusetts, Maine, New Hampshire, and Vermont, to examine into the 
state and condition of this institution, as respects its funds, and the in- 
struction, treatment, and employment of the pupils, and to ascertain the 
terms and conditions upon which the deaf and dumb, who may be sent to 
the Asylum by those States, will be received." 

In 1843 the age of admission was again reduced, as will 
appear by the following vote passed by the board of 
directors : 

"Voted, That the earliest age for the admission of pupils into the Asy 
lum be eight years ; with the hope that all such that are admitted at an 
earlier age than twelve years shall be continued for the term of six years 
at least." 

It is interesting to notice the change in the age of pupils at 
admission since then. An examination of the records shows 
that of the first one hundred pupils only eight were under ten 
years of age, when they began their school course ; fifty three 
were sixteen years of age or over; forty-two were eighteen 
years of age or over ; fifteen were over twenty five years of age, 
and one had reached the age of fifty. 

Of the last one hundred admitted previous to May, 1889, 
forty-eight ^ere under ten years of age; nine were over sixteen 
years of age, and only four had passed the age of eighteen. 
One had reached the age of twenty-seven. 

The average age of the first one hundred pupils at admis- 
sion was 17.91 years. The average age of the last one 
hundred at admission was 10.77 years — a gain of 7-18 years 
in the right direction. 

TIME ALLOWED FOR INSTRUCTION. 

In the matter of time allpwed at school, the deaf-mute 
children of this generation are highly favored above those of 
two generations ago. On this point the seventh annual re- 
port of this school speaks as follows : " Some pupils stay at 
the Asylum only two years, and four is thought by many a 



AMERICA.N ASYLUM. 



21 



pretty considerable time for completing their education. And. 
yet in this time some hope that these infants in knowledge, 
though tliey may be men in stature, as ignorant of knowledge 
of language, when they begin, as the little child who is taking 
his first lessons in his primer, can be taught how to write 
English with grammatical accuracy, and to read books with 
understanding, and also have tlieir minds opened to the 
reception of moral and religious truth, and to an acquain- 
tance, perhaps, with arithmetic, geography, and history, and 
in addition to all this, become tolerable proficients in some 
mechanical employment. Could such things be accomplished 
in the education of those who are deprived of two of the most 
important faculties which man enjoys, it would put to sliame 
all that is done by the most ingenious and attentive parents, 
and at the most celebrated schools, in training up to knowl- 
edge and usefulness those who are favored with hearing and 
speech and all the superior facilities of acquiring information 
and improvement, which these valuable privileges aftbrd." 

In 1825 the commissioners above referred to visited the 
school, and after full consultation with the board of directors, 
the latter passed the following preamble and resolution, viz. : 

" Wheeeas, it is necessary, not only for the good of tlie pupils, but for the 
convenience of the Asylum, that every pupil should continue at least 
four years, that being the least time in which they can acquire even an 
ordinary education, 

" Resolved, That it is expected that no one will be placed here for a less 
term than four years." 

In 1835, the regular term of instruction was extended to 
five years. 

As we look back over this history, and consider the very 
short time allowed for the school course, and consider, more- 
over, that the majority of the pupils on entering the school 
had reached an age when the mind had lost its pliability, we 
do not wonder that the attainments in language were so lim- 
ited that they failed to free themselves from deaf-muteisms, 
but, rather, considering the circumstances, we marvel that 
they were able to accomplish so much as they did. All honor 
to them ! All honor to tlie teachers, who, in spite of all draw- 



22 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



backs and discouragements, fitted their pupils to take their 
parts in life so well ! What would be thought in these days 
of two years, or four years, as the period allowed for the edu- 
cation of deaf-mutes '( 

As time has passed on, the necessities of the case have been 
appreciated better, and the period of instruction has gradually 
been increased. Massachusetts now allows ten years to every 
one of its deaf children, and gives power to the Governor to 
extend the time beyond that limit in the case of meritorious 
pupils, " recommended therefor by the principal or other chief 
officer of the school in which they are members." In the rest 
of New England the State authorities have discretionary 
power to extend the time to about the same limit. One 
more step in advance is needed, viz., to grant the same privi- 
leges to the deaf child that are accorded to his hearing 
brothers and sisters, to enter school as soon as he is old 
enough, and remain until his education is completed, includ- 
ing instruction in the kindergarten, the primary school, the 
grammar school, and in speech and lip-reading. 

METHODS OF INSTRUCTION. 

Great changes have also taken place in the methods of in- 
struction. Finding an insurmountable barrier to acquiring the 
system of instruction in Great Britain, Mr. Gallaudet went 
to France, partially learned the system there in use, and 
brought it, embodied in the person of Laurent Clerc, to this 
country. It was a marvelous system, but there was too much 
machinery about it, and like all the machinery of those days it 
was crude and cumbersome. Too much time was spent over 
the sign language. It seems sometimes to have been regarded 
as an end rather than a means. The lever was mistaken for 
the load which it was intended to move. For example, in 
the teaching of language, instead of presenting the idea 
vividly in brief natural signs, and then turning at once to 
written, or spelled, language, the idea was first given in free 
natural signs, next in word signs in the order of the words, 
and, lastly, by signs in the order of the words, each word 
being accompanied by otlicr signs indicating the part of speech 



AMKEICAN ASYLUM. 



23 



and giving its grammatical construction. After all this prep- 
aration came the written language for the idea. 

Other crudities there were. Mr. Gallaudet, with his coad- 
jutors, set to work to improve this instrument which had been 
placed in their hands. Their successors have pursued the same 
course. One after another its useless and cumbersome parts 
have been removed, and its usefulness has been increased 
thereby. It is, and will always continue to be, the easiest and 
most efficient medium of thinking for the congenitally deaf, 
It is invaluable as a means of conveying ideas rapidly, both 
in giving information and in making explanations. Every 
teacher of the deaf should be a master of the sign language, 
and should use it with perfect freedom and yet with great 
discretion. It should never be more than a means to an end. 
In the days wlien the school period was so short, the end 
sought was to lay up knowledge hi the sign language. ISTow 
we have passed beyond that, and merely use it as a means ot 
reaching the point where all knowledge may be reached 
through the English language and stored in it. 

The system of instruction is now thoroughly eclectic — writ- 
ing, speech, lip-i"eading, manual spelling, pictures, pantomine, 
actions, and the sign-language are all freely used. The ends 
aimed at are the mental development of the pupil and a mas- 
tery of the English language, and any means which will con- 
duce to these ends are unhesitatingly employed. 

ARTICULATION. 

Articulation has always had a place in the instruction 
given in this school. From the beginning the semi-mute and 
serai-deaf have had their speech kept up and improved by 
special attention. The subject was investigated from time to 
time in its workings in other countries by special agents of 
this and other schools, and the best light to be had was fol- 
lowed. In the very limited time allowed for the school course, 
and considering, also, the age at which pupils were admitted, 
it was not deemed wise to extend the instruction beyond the 
above-named classes. As the school period was increased 



24 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



more could be done. In 1845 the following resolution was 
passed by the board of directors : 

" Voted, In view of the facts and results obtained by Mr. Weld, the Prin- 
cipal of the Asylum, during his late visit to various institutions for the edu- 
cation of deaf -mutes in Europe, that the board of directors will take effl- 
cient measures to introduce into the course of instruction in the Asylum 
every improvement to be derived from these foreign institutions; and 
with regard to teaching deaf-mutes to articulate, and to understand what 
is said to them orally, that they will give it a full and prolonged trial, 
and do in this branch of instruction everything that is practically and 
permanently useful." 

In accordance with this resolution about thirty pupils re- 
ceived special instruction in speech and lip-reading during 
the school year of 1845-6. In the following year forty pupils 
were so instructed. Three years later we tind the class in 
articulation and lip-reading still numbered about forty, and 
so on, showing that there was a thorough and persistent at- 
tempt in tlie spirit of the resolution, and with results in some 
cases, both in speech and lip-reading, which have rarely been 
excelled. 

In 1857, a special teacher of articulation was employed by 
this school — the first engaged by any school for deaf-mutes 
in this country — and from that time to this, with the excep- 
tion of one break of five years, the school has not been with- 
out a special instructor in those branches. 

This was the first eclectic school to make use of Bell's 
System of Visible Speech as an aid in teaching deaf-mutes to 
speak. Mr. Alexander Graham Bell spent the months of 
May and June, 1872, in the school in introducing the system 
and in training teachers to give instruction in it. 

Of late years more attention has been given to articulation 
and lip-reading, and their field has been broadened. This 
school, while holding fast to all that is good in the past, has 
settled upon the policy of giving all new pupils a thorough 
and prolonged test, under special teachers, as to their ability 
to acquire speech and lip-reading, and of dropping only such 
as those teachers regard as hopeless cases. "With the rest 
daily instruction in speech and lip-reading is continued 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



25 



through the course. This plan has been adopted in the belief 
that intelligible speech, even if imperfect, is valuable, and 
that it should be given to every pupil who can acquire it, 
even at a partial sacrifice of development in other directions, 
which will require an addition of one or two years to tlie time 
now allowed for the school course in order to make good the 
loss. 

An examination of the school's records in 1889 revealed 
the following facts : 

Of the pupils received into this school during the previous 
four years seventy-four per cent, gave sufficient promise of 
success in acquiring speech and lip-reading to warrant their 
continued daily instruction in those branches. Of those thus 
taught forty-seven + per cent, were born deaf ; fourteen + per 
cent, lost hearing under two years of age ; twenty-four + per 
cent, lost hearing between the ages of two and four years ; 
and fourteen + per cent, lost hearing after the age of four 
years. 

The more than twenty-five hundred pupils who have re- 
ceived instruction at the American Asylum have come from 
twenty-five States, the British Provinces, and the West In- 
dies, viz. : 



Maine, 


Georgia, 


New Hampshire, 


Alabama, 


Vermont, 


Louisiana, 


Massachusetts, 


Texas, 


Rhode Island, 


Indiana, 


Connecticut, 


Illinois, 


New York, 


Michigan, 


New Jersey, 


"Wisconsin, 


Pennsylvania, 


Ohio, 


Maryland, 


British Provinces, 


District of Columbia, 


"West Indies, 


Virginia, 


California, 


North Carolina, 


West Virginia. 


South Carolina, 





At the present time (1893) only the six ISTew England 
States are represented by its pupils. 



26 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



Likewise the following : 

Of the first hundred pupils admit- 
ted to the school — 

46 were born deaf. 

30 became deaf at two years or un- 
der. 

7 became deaf from three to eight 
years of age inclusive. 

0 became deaf at over eight years 
of age. 

17 unknown at what age deafness 
occurred. 

1 had one deaf parent. 

28 came from 33 families in which 
there were forty other deaf children. 

0 was reported as having parents 
related by blood. 

In one family represented there 
were 6 deaf-mute children. 

In one family represented there 
were two deaf-mute sons and one 
deaf-mute daughter who were mar- 
ried before this school was estab- 
lished. 

In another family there were 4 
deaf-mute children. 



Of the last hundred pupils admit- 
ted— 

41 were born deaf. 

26 became deaf at two years of age 
or under. 

22 became deaf from three to eight 
years of age inclusive. 

1 became deaf at over eight years 
of age. 

10 unknown at what age deafness 
occurred. 

5 have deaf parents, and in these 
families there are thirteen other deaf 
children and two hearing children — 
12 of these deaf children coming from 
two families. 

9 children, having hearing parents 
unrelated by blood, come from seven 
families having more than one deaf- 
mute child — the whole number of 
deaf children in these families being 
16, and the number of hearing child- 
ren 24. 

2 children come from families in 
which the parents are cousins, and 
the two families together have six 
deaf mute children and fifteen hear- 
ing children. 



Up to May 189] five hundred and ninety marriages of for- 
mer pupils had been reported. From these had sprung eight 
hundred and eleven children, of whom one hundred and four, 
or nearly thirteen per cent, were reported congenitally deaf. 
Nearly one half the marriages were without issue. 

The deaf-mutes of America have not failed to testify their 
love and admiration for their first teachers, Thos. H. Gallaudet 
and Laurent Clerc, nor to show their appreciation of their 
labors in their behalf In September, 1850, they presented 
each with a costly solid silver service, and to each they have 
erected, at their own expense, on the grounds of the institution, 
a permanent memorial at a total cost of e than six thou- 
sand dollars. 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



27 



SUPPORT. 

The school is supported partly by the income from its in- 
vested funds and partly by State appropriations, and is under 
the management of a board of directors composed of some of 
the most prominent business and professional men of Hartford 
and ex officio, the Governors and Secretaries of the six New 
England States. 

The charge for board and tuition is $175 a year and this 
expense is met by State appropriations. This covers from 
two-thirds to three-fourths of the actual cost, the rest being ' 
provided from the income of the funds. 

The school employs sixteen regular teachers, a special 
teacher for a blind deaf-mute, a teacher of drawing, and an 
instructor of Swedish gymnastics. 

BOOKS PUBLISHED. 

The Ellen Lyman Memorial Fund of $2,000, given by Mrs. 
Lafayette S. Foster of Norwich, Conn., and an Illustrative 
Fund given by the Hon. Joseph Davis of Lynn, Mass., have 
provided means for publishing a few books specially adapted 
to the use of deaf children. By this aid the following books 
have been published and are doing useful service in a large 
proportion of the schools for the deaf in the United States and 
in some schools in Canada and England, viz.: First Lessons in 
English — a graded course of instruction in language in four 
volumes — by Miss Caroline C. Sweet; Talks and Stories — 
one hundred short stories and seventy-five conversations for 
practice in language — prepared by W. G. Jenkins, M. A. ; 
Bits of History — one hundred stories gathered from United 
States history — compiled by John E. Crane, B. A., and "A 
Story Reader " — a volume of short stories for young pupils 
— compiled by Miss Ida Y. Hammond. 

The American Annals of the Deaf and Dumb, now known 
all over the world as the official organ of the schools for the 
deaf in America, originated with the teachers of this school, 
and they furnished nearly all of the articles for the first two 
volumes. It was published quarterly then, as now, and the 



28 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



Board of Directors of the school appropriated $300 towards 
the expense of publisliing the first volume. 

At the First Convention of American Instructors of the 
Deaf and Dumb, held at the 'New York Institution in 1850, 
the magazine was adopted by that body, which became re- 
sponsible for its support, and placed it under the management 
of its executive committee, but the editorship was still tilled 
by a teacher of the American Asylum, first by Mr. Luzerne 
Rae, and after his death by Mr. Samuel Porter, who held it 
until the magazine was suspended on account of the Civil 
War. 

The management of the school is wisely conservative, but 
it moves on in no old grooves, is wedded to no system. It 
gladly examines and tests every new tiling that promises to be 
.an improvement, and with alacrity adopts whatever proves 
itself worthy of adoption. It believes in proving all things 
and in holding fast that which is good. It makes no changes 
merely for the sake of change, but is ever ready to make any 
change for the sake of improvement. It stands where it has 
always stood, in the front rank of schools for the deaf 

JOB WILLIAMS. 



AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE CONNECTICUT ASYLUM 
FOR THE EDUCATION AND INSTRUCTION OF DEAF 
AND DUMB PERSONS. 

1. Se it enacted hy the Governor and Council and House of Repre- 
sentatives in General Court assembled : That John Caldwell, Nathan- 
iel Terry, Daniel Wadsworth, Mehitable Wadsworth, Susan Tracy, 
"Ward Woodbridge, Henry Hudson, Daniel Buck, Mason F. Cogs- 
well, Joseph Battell, William H. Imlay, Charles Sigourney, David 
Porter, David McKinney, Isaac Bull, Thomas S. Williams, John 
Morgan, Samuel Tudor, Jr., John Butler, George Goodwin, John 
Beach, James Ward, Roswell Bartholomew, George Smith, Joseph 
Rogers, Moses Tryon, Jr., Nathan Strong, Jr., Charles Seymour, 
James H. Wells, Jonathan W. Edwards, William W. Ellsworth, 



AMEEICAN ASYLUM. 29 

William Watson, Russel Bunce, Eliphalet Terry, Seth Terry, 
Lynds Olmsted, Thomas Lloyd, James B. Hosmer, Joseph Trum- 
bull, Samuel Tinker, Horace Burr, Russell Talcott, Christopher 
Colt, Eliphalet Averill, Nathaniel Patten, Joseph Wells, William 
Ely, Spencer Whiting, Barzillai Hudson, Jr., Jonathan Law, 
George Goodwin, Jr., Daniel Crowell, Charles Goodwin, Michael 
Shepherd, Caleb Goodwin, Dudley Buck, Aaron Chapin, Jared 
Scarborough, Barzillai Hudson, Jacob Sargeant, Peter Thatcher, 
Talcott Wolcott, Nathaniel Spencer, and their associates be, and 
they hereby are, formed into, constituted, and made a body politic 
and corporate, by the name of "The Connecticut Asylum for the 
Education and Instruction of Deaf and Dumb Persons," and by that 
name they and their successors shall and may have perpetual suc- 
cession : shall be capable of suing and being sued, pleading and 
being impleaded in all suits of what nature soever, may have a 
common seal, and may alter the same at pleasure, and may also 
purchase, receive, hold, and convey any estate, real or personal, the 
annual income of which shall not exceed five thousand dollars. 

2. And be it further enacted, That the said Asylum may, from 
time to time, elect a President, and such other officers as they may 
find necessary or convenient, may elect additional members, and 
the said Asylum may make by-laws, respecting the number, quali- 
fications, and duties of their officers ; the mode of election and 
admission of members, the time, place, and manner of holding 
their meetings, and the number necessary to make a quorum, and 
all other by-laws which they may deem necessary for the due regu- 
lation of said Asylum, not repugnant to the laws of this State or 
of the United States. 

3. And he it further enacted, That the first meeting of said 
Asylum be held at the State House in Hartford, on the second 
Monday of June next. 

4. And be it further enacted, That this act or any part thereof, if 
found inadequate or inconvenient, may be altered, amended, or 
repealed. 

General Assembly, May Session, 1816. 
CHARLES DENISON, 

Speaker of the Souse of Representatives. 



Attest, 



JOHN COTTON SMITH, Governor. 

Thomas Day, Secretary. 



30 



AMERICAN ASYLUM. 



AN ACT TO ALTER THE NAME OF THE ASYLUM. 

At a General Assembly of the State of Connecticut, holden at Hartford 
in said State, on the first Wednesday of May, Anno Domini 1819: 
Upon the petition of the " Connecticut Asyhim for the Education 
and Instruction of Deaf and Dumb Persons," showing to this assem- 
bly, that the said institution, although styled the Connecticut 
Asylum, was originally founded for the relief of the Deaf and 
Dumb wherever situated, and that no preference has ever been 
given to applicants for admission on account of their local resi- 
dence. And that, in consideration that the Congress of the 
United States have very liberally granted, for the use of the 
Asylum, a township of land, and in consideration also of the con- 
tributions of charitable individuals in the other States in the 
Union, the members of the corporation are desirous of changing 
its corporate name so that in future it be called "The American 
Asylum at Hartford, for the Education and Instruction of the 
Deaf and Dumb." 

Resolved hy this Assembly, That the name and style of said cor- 
poration be and the same is hereby changed, and that hereafter it 
be known and called by the name and style of "The American 
Asylum at Hartford, for the Education and Instruction of the 
Deaf and Dumb," anything in the original act of incorporation 
to the contrary notwithstanding. 

Provided, however. That this act shall be so construed, that any 
bequest, devise, gift, grant, covenant, or promise, that has been or 
may be made to said corporation by either of said names, shall 
take effect ; and this act shall in no wise prejudice the said cor- 
poration in respect to any privilege or benefit to which it may have 
been entitled had not the same been passed. 

And it is also provided. That no misnomer of the said corporation 
shall prevent the same from taking benefit of any bequest, devise, 
gift, or grant when the intention of the testator, devisor, donor, or 
grantor can be clearly understood. 
A true copy of record. 

Examined by 

THOMAS DAY, Secretary, 



A HISTORY 

OF THE 

New York Institution 

FOR THE 

Instruction of tlie Deal* and Dumb. 

lA I'rce School fo}- all Dfnf Cliililren of the State Over the Age of Five Years^ 



Washington Heigtits, New York City. 



[IXCORPORATED, Al^RIL 15, 1817. OPENED MAY 30, 1818.] 




NEW YORK : 

Printed at the New York Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. 

1893. 



OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS. 



1893. 



PRESIDENT. 

HON. ENOCH L. FANCHER, LL.D. 

FIRST VICE-PRESIDENT. 

REV. CHARLES A. STODDARD, D.D. 

SECOND VICE-PRESIDENT. 

MORRIS K. JESUP. 

TREASURER. 

GEORGE A. ROEBINS. 

SECRETARY. 

THATCHER M. ADAMS. 



First Class — Term expires May, 1893. 
Morris K. Jesup. James O. Sheldon. 

Edward M. Townsend. George A. Robbins. 
Thatcher M. Adams. William M. Halsted. 

George F. Betts. Walter H. Lewis. 

Second Class — Term expires May, 1894. 

Rev. Thos. Gallaudet, D.D. David S. Egleston. 
Benjamin H. Field. George A. Peters, M.D. 

John L. Tonnele. J. Hood Wright. 

John T. Terry. Frederic James DePeyster. 

Third Class — Term expires May, 1895. 

Hewlett Scudder. Hon. Albert M. Patterson. 

Hon. E. L. Fancher, LL.D. Rev. Chas. A. Stoddard, D.D. 

Avery T. Brown. Everett Herrick, M.D. 

John A. Beall. James B. Ford. 



STANDING COMMITTEES. 



Executive Committee. 
John T. Terry, Chair-man. 
George F. Betts. Frederic J. DePeystkr. 

William M. Halsted. J. Hood Wright. 

(The President and Treasurer ex officio.) 



Finance Committee. 
James O. Sheldon. J. Hood Wright. 

Hon. Albert M. Patterson. 
(The President ex officio.) 



Committee of Instruction. 
Rev. Thomas Gallaudet, D.D. Avery T. Brown. 
•John L. Tonnele. James O. Sheldon. 

George A. Peters, M.D. 

(The President ex officio.) 



Law Committee. 
Hon. Enoch L. Fancher, LL.D. Thatcher M. Adams. 
George F. Betts. 



Library Co)nmittee. 
Avery T. Brown. Walter H. Lewis. 

Frederic J. DePeystek. 

Indies' Committee. 

Mrs. Ethan Allen Cliairman. 

Mrs. Henry M. Day Secretary. 

Miss Julia Cooper Treasurer. 

Mrs. John T. Terry. Mrs. Edward Oothout. 

Mrs. Henry A. Oakley. Mrs. Charles A. Stoddard. 
Mrs. James O. Sheldon. Mrs. Helena T. Brown. 
Mrs. Edward M. Townsehd. Mrs. Andrew H. Smith. 
Miss Caroline Delano. Miss Harriet Taber. 

Mrs. Edgar S. Auchincloss. Miss Caroline H. Patterson. 
(The Visiting Committee is changed every montli.) 

Committee on N^ominations. 
Morris K. Jesup. Avery T. Brown. 

Everett Herrick, M.D. 



EDUCATIONAL DEPARTMENT. 



PRINCIPAL. 

ENOCH HENRY CURRIER, M.A. 

PRINCIPAL EMERITUS. 

ISAAC LEWIS PEET, LL.D. 

ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT. 

THOMAS FRANCIS FOX, M.A. 

MALE GRAMMAR DEPARTMENT. 

THOMAS FRANCIS FOX, M.A. 
WILLIAM G. JONES, B.A. 
WALTER B. PEET. 
GEORGE RAY HARE, M.A. 

FEMALE GRAMMAR DEPARTMENT. 

IDA MONTGOMERY. 
MYRA L. BARRAGER. 

MALE PRIMARY DEPARTMENT. 

CHESTER Q. MANN. 
CHARLES W. VAN TASSELL. 
LIT ANN C. RICE. 

FEMALE PRIMARY DEPARTMENT. 

JOSEPHINE L. ENSIGN. 

kinder(;arten. 
FAYETTA PECK. 

bepartment of articulation, lip-reading and aural 
development. 
WALTER B. PEET. 
GEORGE RAY HARE, M.A. 
JANE T. MEIGS. 
ELIZABETH M. STRYKER. 
GRACE H. STRYKER. 



DEPARTMENT OF INDUSTRIAL AND TECHNICAL ART. 

GABRIELLE MARIE LePRINCE. 



HOUSE DEPARTMENT. 



PRINCIPAL. 

ENOCH HENRY CURRIER, M.A. 

ATTENDING PHYSICIAN. 

W. T. ALEXANDER, M.D. 

CONSULTING PHYSICIANS. 

EVERETT HERRICK, M.D. GEO. A. PETERS, M.D. 

OPHTHALMOLOGIST AND OTOLOGIST. 

FREDERICK C. RILEY, M.D. 

STEWAKD. 

CURTIS WILCOX. 

ASSISTANT STEWARD. 

HUGH CONLEY SEWARD. 

CLERK. 



MATRON. 

MRS. SUSAN L. HENRY. 

ASSISTANTS. 

MISS PRUDENCE LEWIS— Chief Supervisor of Girls. 
MISS MYRA M. 'i^O^G— Matron of Primary Department, 
MRS. HARRIET STYNK]^^^— Housekeeper. 
MRS. ANN L. TURNER— Zwim Boom. 

NURSE. 

MRS. MARGARET L. ADAMS. 

SUPERVISORS. 

W. H. VAN TASSELL. MARY E. MONTGOMERY. 
JOSEPH ROYCE. TILLIE ROSS. 

WILLIAM L. HANSON. FLORENCE BIELBY. 
EVA E. BUCKINGHAM. 

p:ngineer. 
JOSEPH H. BANKS. 



NIGHT AVATCH 

FREDERICK A. GERLOFF. 
ALBERT H. KING. MAGGIE DONLAN. 



INDUSTRIES AND TRADES. 



PRINCIPAL. 

ENOCH HENRY CUKRIER, M.A. 

INSTRUCTORS. 

PRINTING. 

EDWIN A. HODGSON, M.A. 
ANTHONY CAPELLI, Ass't. 

CARPENTRY AND CABINET-MAKING. 

EDWARD CLEARWATER. 

SHOEMAKING. 

JOHN LECHTHALER. 

TAILORING. 

CHAS. ENGLEHARDT. 
HATTIE E. DeGOLIA, Ass't. 

GARDENING. 

PATRICK BARRY. 
ALBERT METZGER. 

BAKING. 

THOMAS BEATTY. 

DRESSMAKING. 

ANNIE C. KUGELER. 

SHIRTMAKING. 

MARGARET HIGGINSON. 

PLAIN SEWING. 

DELIA FITZGERALD. 



NEW YORK INSTITUTION FOR THE INSTRUCTION 
OF THE DEAF AND DUMB. 



The New York Institution I'or the Instruction of the Deaf 
and Dumb, at present located on Washington Heights in the 
City of New York, ranks second in date among American 
Schools for the Deaf, the American Asylum at Hartford pre- 
ceding it about a year. Nevertheless, its origin, as will be 
seen, was as independent as that at Hartford. 

Se^ieral years previous to the founding of the Institution, 
there were two distinct attempts made in New York to instruct 
the deaf. The first effort was made by Rev. John Stanford, 
a man whose memory is still cherished as a bright example of 
piety and zealous labor in behalf of the unfortunate. Finding 
in the almshouse, of which he was chaplain, several children 
whose ears were closed to the ordinary means of religious 
teaching, he made an effort to impart some instruction to 
them. For this purpose, he provided them with slates and 
taught them to write the names of some familiar objects ; but 
for any further progress, peculiar processes of instruction were 
necessar3% of which he had no knowledge. He consequently 
found himself compelled to await a more favorable period for 
the realization of his wishes. The opportunity at length 
came, as he was subsequently one of the founders of the 
Institution and a member of the Board of Directors. 

At this period, very little was known in America of the 
success of European teachers. Still it was known, in a general 
way, to men of science, that skill, patience and benevolence had 
triumphed over the difficulty of deafness and its consequences ; 
and with the names of De I'Epee and Sicard, of Braidwood 
and Watson, there had probably reached America some rumors 
of the different systems in use in France and England respec- 
tively. Be this as it may, deaf children of wealthy families 
had been sent from America to Great Britain to be educated. 
One of these was from New York, the son of a gentleman 
named Green, who, as early as 1780, was placed under Thomas 
Braidwood, whose school in P^dinburgh attracted so much atten- 
tion in its day. A letter from Mr. Green, giving an enthusi- 
astic account of his son's progress, appeared in a medical 
journal, and exerted an influence upon the founders of the 



10 



New York Institution for the 



New York Institution. At the same time, and for several 
years preceding, three deaf-mutes of the name of Boiling, be- 
longing to the Virginia family of that name, were also under 
the care of Braidwood, and were said to have been remarkably 
Avell educated. 

In the beginning of 1812, John Braidwood, a grandson of 
Thomas Braidwood, came to America, with the design of set- 
ting up a school for deaf-mutes on a magnificent scale. Col. 
William Boiling, a brother of the three deaf-mutes just men- 
tioned, having himself children afflicted with the same priva- 
tion, invited young Braidwood to his house, and furnished 
him with funds to establish a boarding school for the instruc- 
tion of deaf-mutes, proposed to be located in Baltimore. Pos- 
sessed of talents and skill as a teacher, Braidwood was totally 
deficient in steadiness and moral principle. He squandered iri 
dissipation and debauchery the funds entrusted to him, and 
after a succession of failures, resulting from his weakness, he 
finally died a victim to the bottle. In the course of his mel- 
ancholy eccentricities, he made his way to New York, and 
collected a few deaf-mutes to form a school in that city,, 
which, however, was soon broke up, like those in Virginia,, 
by his own misconduct. 

His undertaking in New York attracted the attention,, 
among others, of Dr. Samuel Akerly, afterward one of the 
earliest and most efficient friends of the New York Institution, 
of which he was, for ten years, at once physician, secretary,, 
and superintendent, and also the compiler of an early volume 
of " Elementary Exercises for the Deaf and Dumb," published 
in 1821, and not without merit in its day, though long since laid 
aside. 

In 1816, William Lee, Esq., on his return from Bordeaux,. 
France, where he had been consul, brought a circular letter 
from Mr. F. Gard, the distinguished pupil of the Abbe St. 
Sernin, and for many years a teacher at the Institution of 
Bordeaux. The letter was written in excellent English, which 
M. Gard had studied, and was addressed to " Philanthropists 
of the United States," and contained an offer of himself as 
teacher of the deaf and dumb. Mr. Lee handed it to Samuel, 
L. Mitchell, M.D., a physician in this city, and a man eminent 
in his day for learning, philanthropy and social influence. Dr. 
Mitchell's sympathies were at once aroused, and he conversed 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



11 



with Rev. Mr. Stanford, who, as has been mentioned, had met 
a number of deaf-mutes in the course of his ministrations, and 
with Dr. Akekly, whom he knew as a man with a heart open 
to every call of benevolence. These three gentlemen called a 
meeting at the house of Rev. Mr. Stanford, at which were 
present, besides themselves. Gen. James Mapes, Elisha W. 
King, John B. Scott, Silvanus Miller, R. Wheaton, James 
Palrner, Nicholas Roome, and Rev. Alexander McLeod. This 
meeting resulted in another more public, at Tammanj^ Hall, at 
which the feasibility of instructing the deaf and dumb was de- 
monstrated by evidence, which Dr. Mitchell had collected ; and 
then arose the more practical quf^stion as to whether there 
were enough deaf-mutes in the city to justify the establish- 
ment of a school. The outcome was the first census of deaf- 
mutes ever made in this country. The committee appointed 
presented, at a third meeting on January 23d, 1817, reports 
from seven of the ten wards of the city, giving the names and 
residences of sixty-six deaf-mutes. The population of the city 
was 120,000, which showed a proportion of 1 to 1,818. It was 
believed by some that these could be accommodated at one 
school, and consequently those belonging to the City of New 
York could be sent to the school under Rev. Dr. Gallaudet at 
Hartford, Conn., which might be injured by another school in 
New York City. Therefore, further proceedings in New 
York were considered by some as unnecessary. These and 
other reasons were urged at the time, and had a preponderat- 
ing inriuence on the majority of the gentlemen present, with 
the result that the public meetings were adjourned sme die. 

The gentlemen who first met on this interesting subject, 
were still firm "in their purpose, and the meetings which were 
subsequently convened, were attended by those only who 
wished a school established in New York. In the Spring of 
1817, they accordingly met and organized a list of officers and 
directors, at the head of which was the Hex. DeWitt Clinton, 
and a petition was presented to the Legislature for an Act of 
Incorporation. The high character of the applicants, and the 
unexceptionable, though novel, nature of the application, in- 
sured a ready and favorable hearing, and on the 15th of April, 
1817, the New York Institution for the Deaf and Dumb ac- 
quired a legal existence with the usual corporate privileges. 
By an interesting coincidence, this Avas tlie same dav tliat the 



1-2 



JSfeio Yorh Institution for the 



school at Hartford was openeci for the reception of pupils. 
On the 22(1 of Ma}', 1817, the board of directors met for the 
lirst time. Their first act was to appoint a committee to write 
to England for a teacher, under the impression that the system 
of articulation, introduced by Braidwood, would be of more 
value than the French system, which discarded it. No an- 
swer was received till the summer of 1S18, when the terms de- 
manded were so exorbitant that it was impossible to accede 
to them. 

On the twenty-fourth of March, 1818, the deaf and dumb of 
New York were collected in the court room of the City Hall, 
and lent an affecting infiuerice to an address delivered by Dr. 
Mitchell to an assemblage of the prominent ladies and gentle- 
men of the city, upon the necessity of making provision for 
their education. On the twentieth of May of the same year, Mr. 
Abraham O. Stansbury, a gentleman of liberal education, 
who had been a year in the asylum at Hartford, in charge of 
the administrative department, occupied a room which the 
city authorities had kindly set apart in the almshouse, 
and whom, after waiting in vain to hear from Europe, the 
directors of the New York Institution had engaged to take 
charge of their new school. Around him were grouped four 
young deaf-mutes, who had been brought to him that morning, 
and whom he was in the act of teaching the letters of the 
manual alphabet. They were to live at home and come to him 
every day. Before the close of the year 1818, had been ga- 
thered thirty-three pupils, and Miss Mary Stansbury had been 
engaged as an additional teacher. Twenty-four of these pupils 
were day scholars, and nine were boarders, who, with the other 
additions during the first eleven years, were accommodated in 
I'oonis hired at 41 Warren Street for their benefit. Some of 
these were paying pupils, but the expenses of the majority were 
defrayed by charitable contributions, and by the City of New 
York, which agreed to make an annual appropriation of |400. 

At the Annual Meeting of the members of the institution, 
composed of ladies and gentlemen who had agreed to pay three 
dollars annually, or thirty dollars in one sum, held on the 
third Tuesday of May in that year, in accordance with the 
terms of the charter. Dr. Mitchell was elected President, in 
place of De Witt Clinton, who, having been elected Governor, 
felt constrained to retire. In the spring of 1819, as the num- 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dimib. 



13 



ber of pupils had reached forty -seven, it was found impossible 
to support the institution on the limited resources they could 
command, and Dk. Akerly, as secretary of the Board of 
Trustees, accompanied by Mr. Stansbuky and eleven of his 
pupils, proceeded to Albany, and held an exhibition before the 
Legislature. The result of the favorable impression thus creat- 
ed was the passage, on the 13th of April, 1819, of two Acts — 
one making a direct appropriation of $10,000 from the State 
treasury, and the other securing to the institution a moiety of 
the tax on lotteries in the City of New York, from which, for 
fourteen years thereafter, a considei'able part of its income 
was derived. 

In June following, Mr. Horace Loofborrow was engaged 
as an assistant teacher. In June, 1821, a further grant was 
obtained from the Legislature of $2,500, and on the 16th of 
April, 1822, was passed an Act appropriating $50 each per 
annum for thirty-two indigent State pupils, four of whom 
were to be sent from each Senate district, and authorizing the 
supervisors of any county in such district to send to the insti- 
tution, at the expense of the county, any deaf-mutes not pro- 
vided for by the preceding arrangement. In this way, it was 
thought, no deaf-mute need be left without instruction. The 
term of instruction was, however, unfortunately limited to 
three years. In the meantime, important changes had taken 
j)lace in the organization of the institution. Mr. Stansbuey 
departed for Europe in May, 1821, and Mr. Horace Loofbor- 
row was made Principal. The administrative department of 
the institution was placed in the hands of Ur. Samuel Akerly, 
as superintendent and physician, who occujned this post till 
February, 1831. In 1827, an Act of the Legislature was passed, 
granting $10,000 to aid in the erection of buildings for the 
permanent use of the institution, coupled with three condi- 
tions : 1st. That the directors should raise an equal amount ; 
2d. That the location and plans should receive the approval of 
the Superintendent of Common Schools and the expenditures 
be accounted for to the State Comptroller ; 3d. That the 
institution should be subject to the inspection of the Super- 
intendent of Public Schools, this officer being, at the same 
time, authorized to visit other institutions for the deaf and 
dumb, and to suggest to the directors such improvements in 
the system of instruction as might seem to him desirable. 



14 



Neic York Institution. 



The directors having complied vvitli all the conditions, on 
the 19th of October, 1827, the corner-stone of the new building 
was laid on Fiftieth Street, between the Foui'th and Fifth 
Avenues, by the Hon. Azariah C. Flagg, Secretary of State, 
and ex officio Superintendent of Common Schools, in presence 
of a large assemblage of friends of the institution. The site 
selected was an acre of ground donated by the city, but some 
ten acres of land adjoining were leased for the use of the 
pupils. 

For one who sees it now, densely built up with elegant stone 
structures, palatial dwellings, churches, hotels, the college, and 
the cathedral, it is difficult to realize that this was then a 
rural spot, surrounded by green fields, woods and meadows, 
and reached only by country roads. 

The building was dedicated on the 30th of September, 1829. 
The addi'ess on the occasion was delivered by Rev. James 
MiLNOR, D.D., Rector of St. George's Church, who, at the elec- 
tion in May, had been chosen as the successor of Dr. Mitchell, 
in the office of President. Though the cost had exceeded the 
original estimate by $15,000, amounting in all to |35,000, the 
entire amount, except |10,000 given by the State, was secured 
by the directors, who thus far exceeded the conditions imposed 
upon them by law. 

Mr. Stansbury had not been a teacher at Hartford, and bis 
ideas on the method of instruction were rather crude and 
vague. Consequently, at New York, experience was as yet 
wanting, and the first teachers, themselves groping in the dark, 
endeavored, by Dr. Watson's woi'k on deaf-mute instruction, 
to teach articulation, at least to such of their pupils as retained 
a remnant of speech or of hearing. The results attained, as 
might be expected, were so unsatisfactory that the attempt was 
soon abandoned. Mr. Loofborrow endeavored to reduce to 
practice the directions given in the works of Sicard, with such 
modifications as his own experience and ingenuity suggested. 
He was a man of intelligence and energy, and had lie been 
better seconded in the department of instruction, his success, 
in many instances very creditable, would have been greater 
and more uniform. But, with the exception of one worthy 
lady teacher, and of a gentleman who continued but a year or 
two, his assistants were inadequate to the work. Moreover, 
the signs used by him and his assistants were often clumsy and 



16 



JVeiw York Iitstitutioji for the 



arbitrary, as compared with those Mr. Clerc brought from the 
school of Sicard and Bebian ; nor was this the main disadvan- 
tage. The large number of pupils who attended irregularly 
as day scholars, not only made unsatisfactory progress them- 
selves, but hindered the progress of their classes. Owing to 
the deficiency of well-qualified teachers, there was less moral 
and religious control exercised over the pupils than was desir- 
able, and the school began to suffer in comparison with the 
neighboring ones at Hartford and Philadelphia. 

This popular opinion affected even the Legislature of the 
State, and, as has been noted, on the occasion, in 1827, of the 
grant to aid in the erection of permanent buildings, the condi- 
tion was annexed, that the Institution should be subject to the 
official inspection of the State Superintendent of Common 
Schools, and that high officer was directed "to ascertain by 
comparison with other similar institutions, whether any im- 
provements can be made." Mr. Flagg visited the Institutions 
at Hartford and Philadelphia, and made a careful compai'ison 
of their systems of instruction with that which had been 
pursued in New York. The consequence of his examinations 
and recommendations were that, after a contest of two or three 
years between the party that supported the old teachers and 
the party that desired to place the school on higher ground, 
a change of men and measures was resolved on. 

The labors and anxieties connected with erecting a suitable 
building having been brought to an end, the directors now 
turned their attention to making improvements in the internal 
management, and especially in the i^ersonnel of the corps of 
instruction. Under the inspiring guidance of their new presi- 
dent, they inaugurated measures designed to give the institu- 
tion a leading position in this country and in the world. Dr. 
MiLNOR visited Europe in 1830, at his own expense, and inspect- 
ed a large number of institutions. On his return, he brought 
with him, from the Paris Institution, Prof. Leon Vaisse, an 
instructor who held a high rank in the corps of the Paris 
Institution, to which he returned after some years of service in 
New York, and where he was successively made vice-principal 
and principal. 

The services of Harvey P. Pekt, A.M., who had been asso- 
ciated with Dr. Gallaudet in the Hartford Institution as an 
instructor since the year 1822, and had, during most of the 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dtcmb. 



17 



time, had charge of the administrative department of that 
institution, were soon after engaged to combine, under one 
head, the hitherto separate offices of principal and superin- 
tendent. 

From this dates a new era in the history of the institution. 
Mr. Peet (afterwards known as Dr. Peet, by virtue of the 
title of LL.D., conferred upon him by the Regents of the 
University of the State of New York), entered upon his duties 
on the 1st of February, 1831, and at once, with characteristic 
vigor, began to introduce the changes which his experienced 




HARVEY PRINDLE PEET, PH.D., LX.D. 

eye found necessary. He was a man of judgment and indefa- 
tigable energy, and he left nothing unattempted that would 
redound to the benefit and reputation of the institution. He 
always kept it before the public eye, both in the city and at 
the Capital. He procured teachers who had the making of 
men tliat would be considered eminent in any profession, as 
will be seen in the list of instructors employed in the Institu- 
tion in his time, and which appears at the close of this sketch. 
He prepared and published a course of instruction for the deaf 
and dumb, and originated and furthered, during his life, a 
system of conventions of teachers of the deaf, which have con- 
tinued to the present time. He constantly contributed himself, 
and urged his associates to contribute, articles for various 
periodicals, chiefly the American Annals of the Deaf sup- 
ported by all the institutions in the coantry„ and in every 
2 



18 



N'eio York Institution, for the 



•way inspired entbusiasm in his associates as well as in his 
pupils. The result was that the institution gained a full 
measure of that public favor that was essential to its prosperity. 

The period of instruction was lengthened at various- times, 
showing a gradual advance in correct public sentiment. The 
law of 1820 allowed but three years to each State pupil. This 
period was extended, in 1825, to four years, and, in 1830, to five. 
Two years more were added to the term in 1838, for such 
pupils, usually about one-half of the whole, as desired to con- 
tinue, and gave promise of profiting by the extension. Again, 
in 1853, the Legislature gave its sanction to the High Class, es- 
tablished the year before, by authorizing the continuance of 
those State pupils selected as suitable members of such a class, 
for three years' instruction in the higher branches of educa- 
tion after the completion of the regular term. A similar ex- 
tension of the i-egular term, and the same privilege for the 
more deserving, of remaining an additional term as members 
of the High Class, was granted to its State pupils by the State 
of New Jersey, which sent part of its deaf-mutes to the New 
York Institution up to the date of the opening of the Institu- 
tion at Trenton, in 1883. Finally, the term reached eight 
years, and additions were made to the number of State pupils, 
till, by the act of 1862, every indigent deaf-mute in the State, 
between the ages of twelve and twenty-five, was entitled to 
education at the jjublic expense. The number of pupils was, 
also, steadily increased by the wide dissemination of notices of 
the Institution circulated in its Annual Reports ; by the union 
with the New York Institution, in 1836, of the Central Asy- 
lum, established in 1821 at Canajoharie, N. Y. ; by send- 
ing through the State to seek out the uneducated deaf ; and by 
a tour, in which Dr. Peet visited every city, and many towns 
of importance, in the State. 

The buildings at Fiftieth Street were twice enlarged, and a 
third addition was in contemplation, when it became evident 
that the out-of-door space suri'ounding the Institution would 
be unfavorably contracted by the construction of new streets 
and avenues. 

Meanwhile the Directors had acquired a title to the premises 
they had hitherto leased, and it was thought that it would be 
a wiser policy to sell their land, which had appreciated in value, 
and purchase a site further removed from the denser portion 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



19 



of the city. They accordingly, with the permission of the 
Commissioners of the Land Office, sold their buildings and 
grounds, which subsequently became the site of Columbia Col- 
lege, and purchased of Colonel James Monroe his beautiful 
country seat known as Fan wood, on Washington Heights, 
embracing thirty-seven and a half acres of land, and command- 
ing a beautiful view of the Hudson River, which forms its 
western boundary. This beautiful demesne derived its title 
from the favorite child of he who gave the country the era of 
good feeling, and, with fitting coincidence, it subsequently be- 
came the cognomen of a beautiful little deaf child, who found 
in the Institution the first mother and home she had ever 
known. The original purchase, from municipal necessities 
caused by the extension of streets and boulevards, has been 
reduced to some twenty-six acres. The arrangements and 
proportions of the new edifice were made the subject of pro- 
found study and reflection, and resulted in a plan and eleva- 
tion which were regarded by all familiar with the needs of 
such an institution as combining more points of excellence than 
any that had been yet adopted. This fact is evidenced by the 
numerous suggestions the buildings have furnished to other 
institutions of this class, which have copied them more or less 
closely in later structures. 

The corner-stone of this edifice was laid on Tuesday, No- 
vember 22d, 1853, under the superintendence of Hon. Jacob A. 
Westervelt, the Mayor of the City of New York, and was an 
occasion of the deepest interest. A little over eight years be- 
fore, on the 8th of April, 1845, had occurred an event which 
carried deep grief to all the friends of the institution. Dr. 
MiLNOE, who for nine years had held the office of vice-presi- 
dent of the institution, and had been for the last fifteen years 
of his life its president, gratuitously devoting more time and 
labor to its interests than any of his associates or predecessors 
in the board of directors, died after an illness of only a few 
hours. At the annual meeting of the society in the May fol- 
lowing, RoBEET C. Cornell, who had been one of its vice-presi- 
dents, was elected to the vacant seat, "but, even in the hour of 
his election, the hand of death was laid upon him, and the 
society separated with congratulations on their choice, only to 
have their second bereavement," Mr, Cornell dying a short 
time after his election. 




Principal Floor. 

SCALE. 

•ft H...,-? '"' ft 



PLAN OF INSTITUTIOX BUILDINGS AT FANWOOD. 



22 



New YorTc Institution for the 



The Board of Directors then selected Dr. Harvey P. Peet as 
their president, and combined in one the offices of president 
and principal. He had, therefore, occupied a position of pecu- 
liar prominence in all the proceedings looking to the erection 
of the new buildings, and on the day which realized the hopes 
of years, he had been selected to deliver the principal address 
to an audience composed of gentlemen occupying high positions 
in church and state and society, of teachers of the deaf fi'om 
different parts of the country, and a large number of graduates 
of the institution. By the 4th of December, 1856, the new 
building was so far completed as to justify the removal, on 
that day, of the pupils, then numbering three hundred and 
fifteen souls, to their new house on the banks of the Hudson 
River. 

The grounds occupied by the institution comprise, at the pre- 
sent time, about twenty-six acres, and are located on the Hud- 
son River, at Washington Heights, between One Hundred and 
Sixty-second and One Hundred and Sixty-fifth Streets. The 
entrance to the grounds are at the junction of Amsterdam Ave- 
nue and Kingsbridge Road, near One Hundred and Sixtj'- 
third Street. The buildings occupy a portion of the lawn at an 
elevation of one hundred and twenty-seven feet above the 
river — fronting westward. 

The buildings — including the front, wings, and school-house 
in the rear, form a quadrangle of two hundred and forty feet 
front, and more than three hundred feet in depth. Within the 
quadrangle is a fifth or central building. The shops and other 
out buildings occupy convenient locations to the north and east 
of the boys' wing and school-house. The four exterior build- 
ings have each four stories, including the basement — the cen- 
tral building only three — the chapel which occupies its upper 
part having an elevation equal to botli the upper stories. 

The front building is one hundred and fifty feet long, by 
fifty-five deep — besides a projection of tvvelve feet in the cen- 
tre, from which a piazza projects. Entering by this piazza, 
there is an entrance hall of twenty feet wide and forty deep, 
terminating on the great staircase, and crossed at that end by 
a corridor of ten feet wide, which runs the whole length of 
the building, one hundred and fifty feet. There are cor- 
responding corridors in each of the stories above, leaving 
the rooms on each side twenty feet deep, from the doors 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



2a 



upon the corridors to the front or rear windows. From 
each extremit}^ of the corridors, as seen in the plan, halls 
extend to the connections with the wings, and the staircases 
in the towers. 

On either side of the entrance hall is a reception room for 
visitors, and a director's room. The hall itself is lined with 
cabinets containing valuable mineralogicai and conchological 
collections, and a line exhibit of birds and curiosities from Cey- 
lon, the islands of the Pacific and the north-west coast, with 
specimens of the various woods originally found on the 
grounds of the Institution. The large space in the wall near 
the door is occupied by Mr. John Carlin's masterpiece, which 
he bequeathed to the school. In the reception room are 
cases for the library, in which are over 4000 volumes, including 
one of the finest collections of works on the Deaf and their in- 
struction in existence. On the same floor are rooms for the prin- 
cipal and for the matron. The second story contains rooms for 
the teachers who lodge and board in the institution, for such 
visitors as may have claims to special attention, and for other 
purposes. In the upper story are dormitories for the pupils of 
the female department, and the hospital for ordinary cases of 
sickness — a special building for contagious diseases, known 
as the Cottage Hospital, near Fort Washington Avenue, is far 
removed from the main buildings — the basement of this 
building contains rooms for domestics, store-rooms, etc. 

Each of the wings is one hundred and twenty feet by forty- 
six. Entering one of them through the passage or hall leading 
from the central corridor, you find on the first floor the saloon 
or sitting room for the pupils, one hundred and six feet by 
forty-two in clear interior space, and sixtee;i feet to the ceil- 
ing. In these spacious and loftj^ rooms, well warmed 
in winter, and well ventilated at all times, the pupils 
have seats, tables for reading, or study, or composition, in the 
evening, and at such other fragments of time as reading and 
study may ba order. The evening light here, as in the other 
rooms, is furnished by gas. 

In the basement of the wings are wash and bathing rooms ; 
in the second story, separate dormitories, wardrobes, etc.; and 
in the upper story of each an open dormitory, of size corre- 
sponding to the sitting room below, and of equal height. In- 
stead of the pillars which, in an ordinary building, would be 



24 



New York Institution for the 



required to support the floors in rooms of such dimensions, the 
floor of the dormitory is braced up by trusses, and supports 
the floor below it by iron rods. By this expedient, the four 
great rooms, the saloons below, and the dormitories above, are 
deft entirely clear of pillars or supporting rods. Each of these 
four rooms has a clear content of over seventy thousand cubic 
feet, which, with the provision for the renewal of the air by 
ventilation, and the height of the ceiling, secures to each pupil 
abundant breathing space and pure air. The staircases 
in the towers, afford to the principal and matron access 
to the apartments of the pupils under their care. The 
main staircases to the dormitories are at the eastern end of 
each wing, and to give every guarantee of safety in case of 
fire, are constructed of stone. In addition to this the main 
building, with the adjoining wings, are connected by an im- 
proved system of fire signals centering in the main hall, from 
"whence a special alarm can be sent at a moment's notice to the 
City Fire Department. 

The Academic Building is in the rear of the main building, 
and is one hundred and fifty feet by fifty -five, containing class, 
lecture, library, laboratory and cabinet rooms, with the art 
studio and necessary offices. Each class has a large, lofty, 
well-lighted and well-ventilated room, of an average size of 
twenty by twenty-eight feet. In the basement of this build- 
ing, are the air chambers of the heating and ventilating ap- 
paratus, store rooms, wash rooms, etc. The exterior of the 
building is furnished with an elaborate system of fire-escapes 
to facilitate safe and speedy exit in case of necessity. 

The central building contains on its first floor the dining- 
room, under which in the basement are the kitchens, and on its 
second floor the chapel, eighty by sixty feet, and over thirty 
feet high, with ten lofty windows. It is also ventilated by a 
large skylight in the roof. At the east end, against the wall, 
is the platform, raised three feet above the floor, for the offi- 
ciating teacher, while the pupils and spectators occupy seats ris- 
ing successively one behind the other. As the worship in which 
the deaf and dumb can share must be addressed to the eye only, 
care is taken that every eye in the congregation can rest with 
ease on the platform, and that the light should be thrown that 
way. It will be seen by the plan that the pupils have access to 
the chapel by corridors from their respective sitting rooms, each 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



25 



department entering by its own door ; and after the morning 
prayer and explanation by signs of a text of scripture, each de- 
partment passes alonw another corridor to the school-honse. 
The same corridors also give access to the dining-room under 
the chapel. From the first building, the access to the chapel 
is by the great staircase. In the chapel, besides the 
religious exercises by which school is opened each day, public 
worship in the language of gestures, intelligible to all the 
pupils, is held every Sabbath. Here, also, public exercises are 
held on certain days of the year. 

On the northern boundary of the grounds is located the 
building containing the shops, erected in 1869, and containing 
trade schools for instruction in printing, carpentry, cabinet- 
making, shoemaking, chair-caning and tailoring. The build- 
ing is 100 feet by 30, presenting three stories of brick above a 
basement of, stone, and its construction was completed at a 
cost of nearly $20,000. 

The steam apparatus is placed in a separate building, at 
least one hundred feet from the main buildings. From this 
boiler-house steam is conducted to the air chambers under the 
school-house, already mentioned. In this room, which is some 
twenty-one by thirty feet, and sixteen feet high, fresh air 
is heated by the steam, and then distributed by the action of a 
fan-blower, through air chambers and flues under and from 
beneath, through all the buildings. Each room has a separate 
flue connecting with the air passage in the base of each build- 
ing, and a separate flue to carry off the vitiated air. 

From this sketch of the internal arrangements, we return to 
the external features of the main building as it now appears. 
The basement is of a beautiful, speckled-gray granite, from 
Seal Harbor Island, Maine, as are also the window sills and 
lintels. The upper stories are indicated by courses of the same 
material, running round the entire building. The walls, with 
the exceptions just indicated, are of brick, as equally durable 
and far more economical than stone ; and to save the expense 
of frequent renewals of paint or stucco, the external walls are 
faced with yellow Milwaukee brick, giving, with the granite, 
an agreeable contrast of light tints. The roofs are of slate, 
with a cornice of granite. The other architectural features of 
the buildings will appear from an inspection of the plans. 

Work on the preparation of the site was begun in the sum- 



26 



New YorJc Institution for the 



mer of 1853. Much expense and delay was incurred on one 
part of the site, in removing a vast deposit of rock ; and on 
another, in removing a quicksand, the place of which had to be 
filled up with concrete, to the depth, in some places, of eighteen 
feet. There being a water front to the property, a wharf was 
built, on which the building materials were landed from the 
river, and carried up the hill, at first by teams, on a graded 
road ; but this road being too circuitous, a railroad was laid on 
a rapidly inclining plane directly down the face of the hill, up 
which cars loaded with brick, stone, lime, etc., were drawn by 
stationary steam power, at a great saving in the cost of trans- 
portation. The buildings were put up chiefly by day labor, 
under the direction of competent engineers and superintendents. 
The cost including the shops, boiler-house, and steam and 
warming and ventilating apparatus, exceeded four hundred and 
fifty thousand dollars, exclusive of the cost of the grounds. 

To give a better idea of the magnitude of the buildings, we 
add that the areas of the several floors in the five main build- 
ings is A'ery nearly three acres ; about double the area of the 
buildings on Fiftieth Street. As the latter were found capable 
of comfortably accommodating from 220 to 240 pupils, 
these buildings can afford comfortable accommodations for 
at least 550 deaf-mutes, with principal, teachers, oflicers and the 
necessary domestics. 

Two years after the opening of the new building. Dr. H. P. 
Peet, finding that his new field of operation would tax to the 
utmost the energies of his life, and believing that the interests of 
the institution would be subserved by the selection for president 
of some other member of the board, resigned that office, con- 
tinuing, however, to discharge the duties of principal, which 
had so long been merged in those of president. He was 
succeeded by Benjamin R. Winthrop, Esc^., a gentleman who 
had for many years taken the deepest interest in the institution, 
and had, as one of the directors, contributed very greatly to 
its success, by generous devotion, without compensation, of 
time, money and influence. After the removal of Mr. Win- 
throp to France, where he had taken up his permanent resi- 
dence. Shepherd Knapp, Esq., a gentleman identified with 
the growth and progress of the city and of the institution, the 
oldest living director except Dr. Peet, was, in 1869, elected 
president. He was, on his resignation two years after, 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



27 



succeeded by Rev'. William Adams, D.D., who continued in 
the office and performed the duties with zeal and ability till 
his demise, on the 31st of August, 1880. The office was next 
filled by Ex-Judge Henry E. Davies, LL.D., of the Court of 
Appeals, who was succeeded by the Hon. Erastus Brooks, 
whose valued counsels, extensive information and active 
services, were of inestimable advantage to the school. Upon 
his death, on September 30th, 1886, the vacancy was filled by 
the election of Hon. Enoch L. Fancher, LL.D., the present 
president. 




HON. ENOCH L. FANCHER, LL.D. 



With the superior accommodations offered by the new 
buildings and improved facilities, the number of pupils con- 
tinued to increase, till, in 1863, a law was passed which 
authorized the supervisors of the counties to send tu the 
Institution, at the expense of the counties, all indigent deaf- 
mutes between the ages of six and twelve. The passage of 
this Act was dictated by the most humane considerations, inas- 
much as it was ascertained that there were many young deaf- ■ 
mutes in almshouses, under circumstances likely to be detri- 
mental to them in various ways, and others running about the 
streets in our large cities, exposed to every danger, and 



28 



New YorJc Institution for the 



affected by influences likely to inflict permanent injury upon 
their morals and manners. With this additional provision, the 
number of pupils in 1867, fifty years after the Institution was 
founded, amounted to 439, and in 1870 to 616, the highest 
number ever reached. From which time the number has de- 
creased, owing to the establishment of seven other institutions 
for the deaf in the State, and one in New Jersey, so that the 
attendance at this writing is about 300. 

On the 26th of June, 1866, the closing day of the academic 
year, was celebrated the semi-centennial anniversary of the 
Institution. There were in attendance a great number of in- 
vited guests, among whom was a large representation from the 
American Asylum at Hartford. 

The character of the occasion may be inferred from the 
following order of exercises. 

1. The cliair occupied by Benjamin R. Wintlirop, President of the 
Institution. 

3. Reading the order of exercises By Joseph W. Patterson. 

3. Prayer By Rev. Francis Vinton, D.D. 

4. "Reading letters from invited guests, By Rev. Thomas Qallaudet, D.l). 

5. Introductory Address By the President. 

6. Semi-centennial Address, 

By Harvey P. Peet, LL.D., Principal of the Institution. 

7. Address By Rev. William Adams, D.D. 

8. Other Addresses. 

9. Exercises by the pupils. 
10. Benediction. 

In the report of the proceedings, it is observed that "the 
interest of the occasion was greatly enhanced by the fact that 
Dr. H. p. Peet, after more than thirty-six years' service as the 
head of the Institution, was about to retire, and hence his ad- 
dress was a farewell. His son, Isaac Lewis Peet, LL.D., who 
had been for fifteen years Vice-Principal of the Institution, had 
just been unanimously elected to succeed him." 

A second semi-centennial celebration was held by the 
graduates of the Institution, on the occasion of the second 
biennial meeting of the Empire State Association of Deaf- 
Mutes, August 28th, 29th and 30th, 1867. At this remarkable 
gathering were assembled about five hundred deaf-mutes from 
all parts of the country as guests of the Institution, probably 
the largest meeting of the kind the world ever saw. The 
event of greatest interest on this occasion was the presentation 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



29 



to Dr. H. p. Peet, on behalf of his former pupils, of a 
valuable silver plate. 

Though Dr. Peet had retired from the active duties of prin- 
cipal, he did not entirely dissolve his connection with it, but 
continued to live in the Mansion House on the grounds, with 
the title of Emeritus Principal, and by his counsel and co- 
operation strengthened the hands of his successor till his death, 
which took place on the 1st of January, 1873. 

About three years before, had occurred a change in the 
administration of the Institution which was the result of a 




ISAAC LEWIS PEET, LL.D. 



still further increase of pupils, the average attendance having 
reached 535. The Institution was divided into two co-equal 
departments, one of which, the educational department, was 
placed under the Principal, and the other, the administra- 
tive department, was committed to a Superintendent. 
The first superintendent was Dr. Brooks, who had acquired 
a reputation as an efficient manager of an Institution, at the 
New York Juvenile Asylum, of which he had been superin- 
tendent. In him the offices of superintendent and physician 
were united. He retired in the spring of 1873, and was 
succeeded by William Porter, M.D. The Legislature of 
1874 removed the word indigent from its statute book, so far 



so 



JVew York Jnstitution for the 



as the deaf and dumb are concerned, and offered the benefits 
of education to all alike, whether the children of rich or poor 
parents, thus removing the temptation from parents to abridge 
the term of instruction, either by deferring sending their 
children to school too late or by removing them too early, as 
had very often been the case. 

De. Porter, after ten years of efhcient service as superin- 
tendent and resident physician, retired in 1883, and was 
succeeded by Dk. James C. Carson, who, in September, 1884, 
resigned to accept a more lucrative position in the State's 




CHAUNCEY N. BRAINEED. 



service. Dr. George S. Knickerbocker became superin- 
tendent in October, 1884, but resigned in June, 1885, and was 
succeeded by Mr. Ghauncey N. Brainerd, who had been con- 
nected with the Institution for eighteen years as steward. 
As superintendent, Mr. Brainerd managed the administrative 
department with singular ability and far-seeing judgment till 
his retirement in February, 1893. 

One effect of the law of 1863, allowing the admission of 
pupils of six years of age, was largely to increase the propor- 
tion of small children, and it became necessary to classify and 
:separate them from the older pupils. 



Instruotion of the Deaf and Diunh. 



31 



On the 9th of February, 1875, the Executive Committee of 
the Board, to whom was referred the question of separating 
children under twelve years of age from the older children, re- 
commended as wise policy the speedy selection, for purchase, 
of 100 to 200 acres, which would suffice for all future wants of 
the Institution, and to which it could be removed as necessitv 
might require. 

A new Committee of Observation was appointed, consisting 
of five members of the Board of Directors, who, at once ad- 
dressed themselves to the duty thus imposed. In June, 18Y8, 




GEOEGE A. BOBBINS. 



the Hoge Place, at Tarrytown, was purchased for the Institu- 
tion, and a building was opened there, for the use of the 
Primary Department, on Tuesday, October 14th, 1879. Upon 
this occasion Mr. George A. Robbins, the Treasurer of the 
Institution, speaking for the Board, gave an outline of the 
causes which led the Directors to prepare for a prospective 
removal of the Institution from its present site, a purpose 
which had been under consideration for several years pre- 
viously. After three years' experience, it was found that the 
additional expense caused an annual deficiency of several 
thousand dollars, and consequently this branch was per- 



32 



New York Imtitution for the 



manently closed at the end of the summer term in 1883, the 
young pupils being, thereafter, domiciled at the Mansion 
House adjoining the Institution, and the idea of removing from 
the present site being permanently abandoned. 

Following the custom which has long obtained at the Insti- 
tution, of having the school represented at foreign congresses 
of Teachers of the deaf, the Board of Directors, in addition to 
appointing the principal to represent the school, selected two 
members of the Board as special delegates to the International 
Congress for the Amelioration of the Condition of the Deaf, 




REV. CHARLES A. STODDARD, D.D. 

held in Milan, Italy, September 6th to 11th, 1880. One of the 
gentlemen thus selected was the Rev. Charles A. Stoddard, 
D.D., the present first Vice-President of the Institution, whose 
report of the work of the congress and his deductions there- 
from is appended to the Sixty-Second Annual Report of the 
Institution, for the year 1880. In the same publication also ap- 
pears another report on the Congress from the pen of Rev. 
Thomas Gallaude;t, D.D., a member of the Board and like- 
wise a delegate to the Congress. 

At the New Orleans Exhibition, held in 1884-85, the Insti- 
tution presented an exhibit consisting of contributions by the 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



33 



intellectual, industrial and artistic departments, arranged ac- 
cording to the accompanying illustration. Other institutions 
for the deaf in various parts of the country were represented 
by special exhibits, but the N^ew York Institution was awarded 
the diploma for excellence. 

On August 23d to 27th, 1890, the Twelfth Convention of 
American Instructors of the Deaf and the First International 
Convention in America was held at the Institution, the three 
hundred and fifty delegates and their friends being entertained 
as the guests of the Institution. Forty years previous, in 
August, 1850, the initial convention of this body was held at 
the Institution, and of those who attended the first gathering, 
but two were present at the last, Rev. Dr. Thomas Gallaudet, 
and Dr. Isaac Lewis Peet. A pleasant feature of the conven- 
tion was the presentation to Dr. Peet, by a number of his 
former pupils, of a life-size oil portrait of himself, and which 
now adorns the library of the Institution. 

The next important event in the history of the Institution 
was the retirement, on January 1st, 1893, of the venerable 
Isaac Lewis Peet, LL.D., who had been actively engaged 
in the Institution as a teacher for nearly forty-eight years, 
the last twentj"-five as Principal. He was honored by the 
Board of Directors with the title of Principal Emeritus. 

His mantle fell upon Enoch Henry Currier, M.A., who 
had been intimately associated with him for nearly twenty-one 
years, and was thoroughly prepared, by familiarity with the 
theory and practice of deaf-mute education, to assume the re- 
sponsible position of Principal. Within a month of this ap- 
pointment. Professor Currier, as Principal, was further 
honored by being placed in sole charge of the institution, the 
system of double responsibility, which had obtained for 
twenty-three years, being finally abolished. The Institution 
thus resumes its earlier organization with all the advantages 
of possessing at its head a man fully equipped for the position. 

The system of instruction in use is known as the Combined 
System, in contradistinction to all such systems as confine 
themselves to some exclusive method of expression. Its in- 
struments are writing, the manual alphabet, pantomime, signi- 
ficant gestures for individual words, lip-reading, articulation, 
and grammatical symbols, and the special training afforded 
by the Kindergarten drill ; consequently the system is eclectic, 
3 



34 



ISfew York Institution for the 




Instruction of the Deaf aud Dumb. 



35 



rather than partisan, the needs of the individual pupil deter- 
mining the special course to be followed. Thus nothing is re- 
jected which it is thought may be conducive to the benefit of 
the pupils. 

Great attention is paid to the dictation of sentences by 
means of the manual alphabet, the pupils receiving aid from 
the teacher when the meaning of any word is unknown to 
them. They are then encouraged to give their version of 
what has been dictated, on the large slates with which the 
walls of the class-rooms are lined. 




ICXOCH HENRY CURRIER, M.A. 

In this way, phraseology appropriate to all the affairs of life 
is systematically poured in upon their minds. They become 
familiar with forms, words, phrases and idioms. Language 
becomes a second nature, and appeals to their minds practical- 
ly in the same manner that it does to hearing persons ; and the 
longer the process is continued, the more certain is it to 
transfer the deaf-mute from his condition as a foreigner, to 
that of one " to the manner born." All this is accompanied by 
persistent practice in composition, a most useful form of which 
is keeping a daily journal of current events into which the 
pupil's own experience and observation largely enters. 



36 



New York Institution for the 



Tn teaching grammar, great use is made of a system of 
symbols invented by the late Prof. F. A. P. Barnard, 
when he was an instructor in the Institution, but whose 
forms and application have since been modified, till now all the 
grammatical relations in a proposition, both general and parti- 
cular, may be presented to the eye at one and the same time. 
By the use of these symbols, the construction of a sentence 
may be clearly unfolded to the pupil, so that he will under- 
stand it readily, and vice versa, he is enabled to construe any 
passage, so as to show his own knowledg-e of the connection of 
the words. 

As the pupil progresses in language, arithmetic, geography, 
history, and physiology, the natural sciences and the higher stu- 
dies of an academic course are gradually introduced, till he be- 
comes familiar with the ordinary branches taught in 
schools for the hearing, and, when h'e reaches the Academi- 
cal department proper, he can pursue a range of studies 
that gives elevation to his conceptions and independence to his 
modes of thought and expression. In this course, he acquires 
a knowledge of the physical sciences, of the higher mathematics, 
of the principles of rhetoric and logic, and even of mental and 
moral philosophy. 

In addition to this, good manners, refinement and good 
taste, are carefully inculcated hy precept and example. In 
furtherance of this, the instruction given in art has been found 
to be invaluable. All the pupils receive, each week, a lesson 
in drawing from the object, and a selected number have special 
instruction in designing, in wood carving, in cla}" modeling, in 
plaster casting, in ihe ornamentation of porcelain, in sketching 
from nature and in painting in oils and water colors. 

The system of lectures by signs early inaugurated by Dr. II. 
P. Peet, has been continued to the present time, and is car- 
ried out in turn b}'^ all the gentlemen employed as instructors. 
Great use has been made of visible illustration in connection 
with the lectures, and the ordinary exercises in the class-room. 
The Institution has an excellent collection of minerals and 
shells, a good philosophical apparatus, and satisfactory models 
of the different parts of the human body. In addition to these, 
the fine stcreopticon, together with the opaque object attach- 
ment and the microscope attachtnent, enable our pupils to re- 
ceive instruction and entertainnbfeilt' 'almost inexhaustible. 



Instructio7i of the Deaf and Dumb. 



The religious teaching introduced by Dr. H. P. Peet, which 
consists in conveying to the pupils an idea of their relations to 
God and of the duties growing out of these relations, without 
any tinge whatever of sectarian doctrine, either Protestant 
or Roman Catholic or Jewish, has been continued. The result 
of this system is, that the pupils conform to the wishes of 
their parents, as they are encouraged to do, in the ecclesiastical 
relations they form either in the vacations or after they 
permanently leave the institution. 

The subject of teaching articulation to the mute, and lip- 
reading to the deaf, has, as is well-known, engaged the atten- 
tion of the directors and of all the principals of the institution. 
The questions connected with it were at one time regarded as 
of such importance that the Rev. George E. Day, D.D,, 
formerly a teacher in this institution, but now a professor in 
Yale college, was especially intrusted by the Board on the 
occasion of two separate trips to Europe, several years apart, 
to investigate, first, the system which obtained in Germany, 
and afterward the system in vogue in Holland. The letters of 
instruction he received from Dr. H. P. Peet, and his valuable 
and exhaustive reports on the subject, hold a most important 
place in the literature of our profession. Not content with 
this, however, De. Peet, accompanied by his son, visited 
Europe himself, and spent six months in further inquiring into 
the subject. 

The result of all this examination and study is that articula- 
tion holds a high place in our estimation, and continues to be 
regarded as an important method of expression which it is 
desirable to confer upon all deaf-mutes, whenever its acquisi- 
tion will not require such an excess of time and labor as to 
interfere with their progress in other respects. 

In the year 1869, a class was organized and taught by the 
pure oral system under the direction of Prof. Bernhard 
Eoglesman, who had but recently retired from the principal- 
ship of a school which he had founded in New York City, and 
which afterward became the institution now known as the New 
York Institution for the Improved Instruction of Deaf -Mutes. 
The practice inaugurated by him continued several years under 
Prof. Weston Jenkins and Prof. Enoch II. Currier, but it 
was finally concluded to substitute for it the present system 
of giving an hour's lesson daily in articulation and lip-reading 



38 



Nev) York Institution for the 



to every pupil in the Institution, making the acquisition of 
language dependent upon other methods. 

For semi-mutes, however, who, having heard in early years, 
retain more or less of the spoken language of childhood, or for 
the semi-deaf, who possess a degree of latent hearing, sufficient 
to warrant aural training to render spoken sounds intelligible, 
too much stress cannot be laid upon the necessity of careful 
and thorough instruction in speech and speech reading. 

The last named subject of instiuiction — to wit, articulation — 
has been modified by one of the most interesting discoveries 
in the history of deaf-mute education. At the instigation of 
Mr. Richard S. Rhoades, of Chicago, we experiment- 
ed with the audiplione designed by him to enable the 
deaf to hear, through bone conduction, sounds in the air, 
not addressed to any one individual in particular. We have 
also used the rigid metallic ear ti'unipet, which has surprised 
deaf persons, who, without it, were absolutely unconscious of 
ability to perceive vocal sounds, but who were keenly sensible 
thereof, when these sounds were uttered within its cavity. 
But it was finally reserved to Professor Currier, by an 
independent discovery, to show that, through the flexible 
ear tube, fifty out of three hundred and seventy, or a little 
over one-seventh of the pupils in attendance at the time of the 
investigation, were not only able to hear the voices of others, 
but, for the first time in years, and, in most cases, in their 
lives, to hear their own voices. ' 

The result of this discovery is of the greatest importance. 
It is not sufficient for the pupil to hear what is said to him. 
He must also hear himself say the same thing. In practical 
instruction, the teacher first speaks to the pupil, through the 
flexible tube inserted in his ear, and then requires him to 
transfer the mouthpiece to his own lips and repeat the words 
that have been spoken to him. This enables him to compare 
his own enunciation with that of his instructor, and, after re- 
peated trials, to imitate it with an approach to exactness. But 
for this, he would be entirely dependent upon the ear of his 
preceptor, to whom he would have to look for information as 
to whether he was speaking correctly or not. Now, he can de- 
pend, in great measure, upon his own ear, and merely ask of 
his teacher that he repeat his words a sufficient number of times 
to enable him to make the necessary number of comparisons. 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



39 




curkier's conico-cylindrical conversation tube. 
[With duplex ear-piece for the class-room.] 



40 



New York Instittition for the 



This education of the ear and of the voice will have the 
effect to enable a certain number of our pupils eventually to 
take their place in the society of the hearing, and to converse 
with all individuals who may have the kindness to address 
them through the mouthpiece of the tube. Of late years the dif- 
ficulty involved in imparting articulation to the deaf has been 
diminished by an invention of Professor A. Melville Bell, 
which has been introduced into this country by his son, Dr. 
A. Graham Bell. This consists in an alphabet of sounds, and 
indicates, by means of appropriate symbols, the organs of 
speech employed and the manner in which they are affected in 
utterance. 

One great advantage is that the pupil not only easily remem- 
bers, for the time being, what he is taught to do in this way, 
but retains it so long as he keeps the symbols in mind. In this 
way will probably be obviated the great drawback of which 
the old writers on the subject complained, and which is 
acknowledged still to exist by their modern disciples — to wit, 
that the pupils are apt to lose their speech when they leave 
school. 

Our pupils are, moreover, encouraged to practice constant 
reading. There are now, for their use, in the library, 5,567 
bound volumes and over 8,300 pamphlets. Besides these, they 
have the use of twenty-three folios in the Mercantile Library in 
this city, the institution having long since been presented with 
a corresponding number of shares in the Clinton Hall Associa- 
tion, to which the Mercantile Library is indebted for its build- 
ing. On these folios, books are drawn out for them weekly by 
the librarian of the institution. 

An important branch of instruction afforded by the Institu- 
tion deserves more than passing notice — the class of blind, 
deaf and dumb pupils. In the fall of 1874, after being nearly 
three years in school, a little hoy, James H. Caton, a congeni- 
tal deaf-mute, had the misfortune to contract a severe illness, 
in consequence of which he lost the sight of both his eyes. 
On his recovery, after the lapse of a year, the attempt was 
made to continue his education in connection with one of the 
ordinary classes, the teacher giving him some special attention, 
and supplementing his work by means of monitors. This did 
not prove satisfactory, and it became necessary to evolve an 
entirely new method of instruction for this special case. This 



I 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



41 



was accomplished, and the work of instruction was carried on 
through the sense of touch alone, by means of the manual 
alphabet, raised letters and the typewriter. Young Caton 
became an adept in the use of the typewriter, and made really 
remarkable advancement in the use of correct idiomatic Eng- 
lish. In addition to this, he made rapid progress in Arith- 
metic, Geography, History, and all the studies of the regular 
and advanced courses, finally graduating with honor from the 
High Class. 

While Caton was pursuing his studies under the new method, 
another blind, deaf and dumb boy, and a girl similarly afflicted, 
were added to' the class — Richard T. Clinton and Martha 
Moorehouse. Clinton was twelve years of age, when he came 
to school, and had no knowledge whatever of language. They 
pursued the same course as was used with Caton, and with like 
success. Since then the class has been continued and has given 
the blessing of education to seven deaf, dumb and blind chil- 
dren, two of whom are now under instruction — Catharine Mc- 
Girr and Orris Benson — with a fair prospect of making even 
greater advancement than those preceding them in the 
class. 

Little Benson came to the Institution at the age of six, and 
as in the case of the other pupils of this class, had no know- 
ledge of language, or anything else. His case seemed more 
difficult than any of the preceding, as his extreme youth made 
it necessary to place him among the younger children, and 
form, as it were, a new class distinct from that which the blind 
pupils had hitherto been placed. However, the marvelous pro- 
gress this child has made within the short time he has been at 
school, can only be fully appreciated when his performances in 
response to the questions and directions of his teacher are 
witnessed. 

Since the year 1831, great importance has been attached to 
giving our pupils a knowledge of some handicraft, by means 
of which they may support themselves in after life. The 
trades at present taught are printing, cabinet-making, car- 
pentering, shoemaking, tailoring, baking, gardening, wood- 
carving, chair-caning, and artistic designing, for the boys; 
and plain sewing, dressmaking, shirt-making and cooking, for 
the girls. 

In the Academical department, into which enter those of our 



42 



Neio York Institution for the 



pupils, who, favored by the possession of hearing in early 
childhood, or by an additional period of three years' instruc- 
tion secured by law to thirty-six selected pupils, have at- 
tained a higher degree of advancement than falls to the lot of 
the majority, are pursued those studies which characterize 
the high schools of the State. From this department have 
graduated many deaf-mutes, who have occupied positions of 
prominence and responsibility in various avocations, to success 
in which they have attained, in spite of obstacles that would 
have disheartened them, had they been less thoroughly 
trained. In its proper place, in the statistics, will be found an 
illustrative list of the vocations at present pursued by some of 
our former pupils. 

With these advantages, and with this record, the institution 
offers, to the parents of deaf-mutes, the prospect of a good 
education and of future usefulness and happiness for the chil- 
dren whose calamity they have so much lamented, and to the 
State, the guarantee of an equivalent for the means so willing- 
ly and liberally furnished for sustaining our work, in the intel- 
ligent, prosperous, law-abiding citizens. 

The following lists of the Presidents, Principals, Superinten- 
dents, Librarians, Professors and Teachei's, connected with the 
Institution since its opening in 1818, together with statistics 
with respect to the number of pupils, the causes of deafness, 
the success with which our pupils have met since leaving the 
Institution, and other tables, are fraught with much interest. 

Though the causes of deafness are numerous, it is fortunate 
that means have been found to mitigate and almost neutralize 
the effect of a calamity which, but for this and kindred Insti- 
tutions, might well be regarded as appalling. 

The total number of different pupils who have been under 
instruction in the Institution at different periods, has been 
3,345, of whom 1,113 were known to have been born deaf, 371 
were believed to have been boi'n deaf — a total of 1484 — and 
1861 became deaf from various causes, in successive periods, 
and at different ages, as will be seen in the tables embracing 
these subjects. 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



43 



Presidents. 

Elected. Retired.. 



DeWitt Clinton. 


1817 


1819 


Samuel L. Mitchell, M.D. 


1819 


1829 


Rev. James Milnor, D.D. 


1829 


1845 


Kobert C. CorneJi. 


1845 


1845 


Harvey P. Peet, Ph.D., LL.D. 


1845 


1859 


Benjamin R. Winthrop. 


1859 


1869 


Shepherd Knapp. 


1869 


1871 


Rev. William Adams, D.D., LL.D. 


1871 


1880 


Hon. Henry E. Davies, LL.D. 


1880 


1881 


Hon, Erastiis Brooks. 


1881 


1886 


Hon. Enoch L. Fancber, LL.D. 


1886 




Principals. 








J. i 


X OO 1 


Harvey P. Peet, Ph.D., LL.D. 


1831 


1867 


Isaac Lewis Peet, LL.D. 


\mi 


1892 


ii-noch Henry Currier, AM. 


1893 




J_ilU^Xv± A U t5 -1- JXl. xri V^XJL J\.Xjtz>t 






Harvey P. Peet, Ph.D., LL.D. 


1867 


1873 


Isaac Lewis Peet, LL.D. 


1892 





Superintendents. 






Rev. Abraham 0. Stansbury. 


1818 


1821 


Samuel Akerley, M.D. 


1821 


1831 


S. D. Brooks, M.D. 


1870 


1873 


William Porter, M.D. 


1873 


1883 


James C. Carson, M.D. 


1883 


1884 


George S. Knickerbocker, M.D. 


1884 


1885 


Chauncey N. Brainerd, Esq. 


1886 


1893 


Librarians. 






* J. Addison Gary, A.M. 


1832 


1851 


* Oran W. Morris, A.M. 


1853 


1857 


* Dudley Peet, M.D. 


1858 


1862 


* Oran W. Morris, A.M. 


1863 


1869 


* Henry W. Syle, A.M. 


1869 


1874 


Enoch H. Currier, A.M. 


1874 


1893 


Thomas F. Fox, A.M. 


1893 





44 



New York Institution for the 



Appointed. 

1818 *Rev. A. O. Stansbury, 

1819 *Miss Mary Stansbury, 
* Horace Loof borrow, 

1821 * Clinton Mitchell, 

1822 * John H. Gazley, f 



Teachers. 

Retired. 
1821 
1832 
1832 
1822 
1831 



Remarks. 
Went abroad. 



1822 1826 

& Mary E. Rose, \ & 

1853 1852 

1826 Keturah Van Cleft, t 1828 

1828 Emily Courtes8,t 1829 

1830 * Leon Vaisse, 1834 



1830 1831 
& *J. R. Burnet, J & 

1869 1874 

1831 *Dwight Seward, J 1832 



First Principal Missis- 
sippi Institution. 
Married Nathaniel Mit- 
chell ; then Mr. Tot- 
ten. Ass't Matron in 
1842. 



Became successively 
Vice-Principal and 
Principal Paris Inst. 



1832 *F. A.P.Barnard, LL.D., I 1838 



1832 

& * David E. Bartlett, J 
1839 
1832 

& * Samuel R. Brown, J 

183'7 

1832 * J. Addison Gary, J 



1833 * Barnabas M. Fay, J 



1833 George E. Day, D.D.,| 
1834 

& * John R. Keep, J 
1853 



1839 

& 
1852 
1835 

& 
1838 
1851 



Prof, of Math, in Univ. 
of Ala. Later Pres't 
of Columbia College. 

Opened a private school 
in 1852. 

Went to China on 
Christian Ministry. 



Retired to become Sup't 
of Ohio Inst'n. Died 
Aug. 1, 1852. 
1838 Entered Christian Min- 
istry. Principal of 
Michigan Institution. 
1835 Professor in Yale. 
1835 Became a teacher in 

& American Asylum. 
1854 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



45 



Appointed. 

1835 A. Bordman Lambert, J 

Ransom Taylor, \ 
Joseph Haven, J 

1836 

& * Oran. W. Morris, J 
1853 

1837 Shubail F. Bartlett, 

1837 



Retired. Remarks. 

1837 Entered another profes- 
sion. 

1837 Account of ill health. 
1837 Entered another profes- 
sion, 

1851 Two j^ears, 1851 to 1853, 
& Principal of Tenn. 
1869 Inst'n. Librarian in 
Cooper Inst., N. Y. 

1838 

1843 Entered Christian Min- 
• Rev. John H. Pettingell, & istry. 1875-78 teach- 



1872 

1837 Abel B. Baker, f 

1838 ^Andrew L. Stone, % 

1838 

& * Jacob Van Nostrand, J 
1875 

1838 *Aaron L. Chapin, J 



1875 er in Penn. Inst'n. 

1838 

1841 Pastor of Park Street 

Church, Boston. 
1857 Principal of Texas In- 

& stitution 1857-75. 
1879 

1843 President of Beloit Col- 
lege, Wisconsin. 
1838 *Jeremiah W. Conklin, f 1878 Died while a teacher. 
Nathan Totten, f 1845 

1843 Samuel Porter, | 1846 Prof, in National Deaf- 

Mute College. 

Rev. T. Gallaudet, D.D., I 1858 Rector of St. Ann's 

Church for Deaf- 
Mutes in N. Y. City. 

1844 Gilbert C. W. Garaage, f 1883 Resident of Inst'n. 
Fisher A. SpofEord, f 1851 Teacher in Ohio Inst'n. 

1845 Isaac Lewis PeetjLL.D., J 1892 Emeritus Principal of 

the Institution. 

1846 Isaac H. Benedict, f 1865 Clerk in Treasury Dep't 

Washington, D. C. 

1848 *Edward Peet, J 1862 



1851 Jane T. Meigs, 



William H. Weeks, f 



1865 Teacher in the Ameri- 
can Asylum. 



46 



JSfev. York Institution for the 



Appointed. 

1851 Elizabeth C. Bacon, 
Silence Taber, f 

1851 

& * James S. Wells, f 
1855 

1852 George B. Saflford, 
Melancton Storrs, 
Charles D. Helmer, 

1853 Jerusha M, Hills, \ 
Carl W. Knndsen, 
J. Orville Olds, 

1854 Mrs. Meriam Brown, f 
Ada B. Morris, 

* Egbert L. Bangs, J 

1855 * Walter W. Angus, f 

1855 * William L. M. Breg, 

1856 Mary A. Merwin, 

1857 Warring Wilkinson, J 

A. Lavinia Hubbell, 
Edwin South wick, f 

1858 Anna B. Very, 

* Dudley Peet, M.D., J 

1859 * Charles K. W. Strong, f 



Albert A. Barnes, f 
1862 Edward A. Fay, J 



JDavid R. Tillinghast, f 
* William H. H. Brewer, f 
1863 Almon B, Merwin, J 
John N. Freeman, J 



Retired. Remarks. 

1854 
1853 

1852 Teacher in Texas and 
& Maryland Colored In- 
1858 stitution. 
1852 
1853 
1854 
1854 

1857 Artist. 

1854 Artist. 
1856 

1855 

1864 Principal of the Michi- 

gan Institution. 

1861 Teacher in the Ind. Inst. 

1855 Teacher in Michigan 

Institution, 1855-76. 

1862 

1866 Principal of the Cali- 
fornia Institution. 

2 864 

1858 Teacher in the Iowa 

Institution. 

1859 
1862 

1862 Clerk in Treasury De- 

partment, Wash'gton, 
D. C. 

1862 Clerk in M. O. Dept. 
N. Y. P. O. 

1865 Vice-President Nation- 

al Deaf-Mute Col- 
lege, Wash., D. C. 
Editor Am. Annals. 

1868 Teacher in N. C. Inst. 

1864 

1865 In Christian Ministry. 
1865 In Christian Ministry. 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



47 



Appointed. 

1863 Ida Montgomery, f 
Mrs. Mary T. Peet, f 

1864 Albert P. Knight, f 

* Charles S. Newell, Jr.,f 

* John H. Roche, f 

1865 Josephine L. Ensign, 
Isabella H. Ransom, 
Henry D. Reaves, f 
Alphonso Johnson, f 



1865 H. H. HoUister, % 
Mary L. Goodrich, f 
Jacob D. Kirkhiiflf, J 

18GG Franklin A. Rising, J 
Thomas W. Berry, f 

Charles W. Van Tassell, f 
William Brennan, f 
Annie E. Cooke, 

1867 Rev. Jas R. Campbell, J 
Willis Hubbard, f 
Weston Jenkins, J 

E. Frank Elliott, 

1868 Rowland B. Lloyd, f J 
Isabella Van Dewater, f 
Oliver D. Cooke, J 

Orrick Metcalf, J 

Albert H. Livermore, | 
Hattie E. Hamilton, 

Catharine Blauvelt, f 
Mary E. Johnson, 



Retired. Remarks. 
1867 

1874 Teacher in Central 
New York Inst'n. 

1874 
1865 

1883 Went to California. 

1874 Principal Central N. Y. 
Inst. Now teacher 
in Northern N. Y. 
Inst. 

1866 Teacher in Ohio Inst. 
1865 

1866 Teacher in Penn. Inst. 
1869 

1867 From England. Minis- 

ter of the Gospel. 

1867 Teacher in Mich. Inst. 
1868 

1868 In Christian Ministry. 

1868 Teacher in Mich. Inst. 
1883 Principal of N. J. Inst. 
1868 

1883 Teacher in N. J. Inst. 
187^ Married to W. Jenkins. 

1874 From 1845 to 1853, 

teacher in American 
Asylum. 

1869 To practice as a phy- 

sician. 

1869 

1875 Teacher in Western, 

N. Y. Institution. 

1874 
1871 



48 



N'eic YorJc Institution for the 



Appointed. 

1868 Miss Sutton, 

1869 Bernhard Engelsman,| 
1869 

& Francis D. Clarke, \ 
1875 

1869 

& Celia Ransom, 
3878 

1869 Mary Howell, 

* Henry W. Syle, J 

* Sarah Cuddeback, f 

Mrs. Clara P. Johnson, 
Thomas H. Jewell, f 

Annie L. Wager, f 
William E. Clarke, J 
1871 Luann C. Rice, 
Fort L. Seliney, f 

1870 

& Bessie V. Fitzhugh, 
1876 

1873 Enoch H. Currier, J 

* Pender W. Downing. 

Edward B. Nelson, | 
Zenas F. Westervelt, 



Retired. Remarks. 

1868 Temporarily employed 

for a few weeks. 
1873 To practice medicine. 

1873 Principal of Arkansas 
& Inst'n, 1885-92, Prin- 
1885 cipal Mich. Inst'n, 1892. 

1873 Married to Prof. F. D. 
& Clarke. 

1880 

1874 Authoress of Sunday 

School Books. 

1875 Rector of All Souls' 

Church for the Deaf 
Phil a. 

1871 Died at Inst, while 
ministering to sick 
})upils. 

1869 

1882 Teacher in Cent'l N. Y. 
Inst'n. 

1874 Married to T. II. JewelL 
1874 To practice law. 

1874 Teacher in Cent'l N. Y.. 
Inst'n. 

1874 

& 
1880 

.... Principal of the Inst. 

1874 Teacher in Colorado, 

Texas, and Minne- 
sota Inst's. 

1875 Principal Central N. Y. 

Inst'n. 

1875 Principal Western N.Y. 
Inst'n. 



Instruction of the 

Appointed. 

1873 Caroline V. Hagadorn, 
IS'ZS 

& Carrie E. Lounsbury, 
1890 

1876 William G. Jones, f J 

1880 Maria Teles, 

Mary L. Barrager, f 
Chester Q. Mann, f 

1881 Annie B. Garrett, 

Mrs. E. M. Slryker, 

1882 Theodore Peet,J 
Josephine F. Rintoul, 

1882 Julia F. Brearley, 

1883 Prudence E. Burchard, 

Sarah E. LePrince, 
Thomas F. Fox, f J 
1885 Walter B. Peet, J 

William H. Bishop, J 

1887 Emily McAllister, 
Georgia Decker, f 

Frankie C. Hawkins, f 

1888 John H. Geary, f 

Gabrielle M. LePrince, 

1892 George Ray Hare, J 
Grace H. Stryker, 

1893 Edwin A. Hodgson, J 
Fayetta Peck. 



Deaf and Dumi. 49 

Retired. Remarks. 

1883 Private Pupils. 
1878 

& Private School. 
1891 

1884 Subsequently teacher in 

Illinois Inst'n. 



1882 Subsequently teacher in 
California Inst'n. 

1882 Went abroad. 
1886 Married. 

1 886 Subsequently teacher in 
]Sr. J. Inst'n. 

1883 Teacher in Cent'l N. Y. 

and Colorado Inst'ns. 
1888 Director of Art School. 

1888 Went abroad. Novelist. 
1892 Private classes. 

1888 Subsequently teacher of 

art in S. C. Inst'n. 

1889 Teacher of art in N. J. 

Inst'n. 

1888 Teacher in Ark. Inst. 

Principal Cleveland 
.... Day School. 



. . . . Teacher of printing. 
Ed'r Z>. 31. Journal. 



* Deceased. t Graduates of the Institution. t Men of Collegiate Edacation. 
4 



50 New YorJc Institution for the 

Teachers Employed Sin(?e 1818. 





Males. 


Females. 


Total. 


Hearing Teachers .... 


65 


27 


92 




32 


17 


49 




Total 


97 


44 


141 





Colleges Represented. 



Amherst 

Columbia, N. Y 

Hamilton, N. Y 

Harvard 

National Deaf-Mute . 
New York Normal. . 

Oxford 

Princeton 

Trinity 



Union, N.Y 1 

University of Mich. . . 1 

University of N. Y. . . 4 

Williams 3 

Yale 20 

Unknown 13 

Total 58 



Tekms of Longest Continued Service. 

Dr. Isaac Lewis Peet 47 years. 

Miss Jane T. Meigs 42 years. 



Chronological List op Publications. 

Akerley, Samuel, M.D., Late Physician to the New York 
Institution. 

Deafness and other Diseases of the Organs of Hearing. 

8vo. N. Y. 1820 
Observations and Correspondence on the Nature of Deafness 
and Other Diseases of the Ears . 8vo. N.Y. 1821 
Elementary Exercises for the Deaf and Dumb. 

8vo. N. Y. 1821 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



51 



Akerley, Samuel, M.D. — Continued. 

Observations on the Language of Signs, read before the 
New York Lyceum of Natural History, on June 23, 1823. 

8vo. N. Y. 1823 
Address delivered at Washington Hall, in the City of New 
York, on May 30, 1826, introducing the Exercises of the 
Pupils of the New York Institution. 8vo. N. Y. 1826 

American Instructors of the Deaf; Proceedings of Conventions. 
1st and 12th. .... 8vo. N. Y. 1850-'90 

Angus, Walter W., Late Teacher in the New York and 
Indiana Institutions. — Oration delivered upon the 
occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the New York 
Institution for the Instruction of the Deaf ?^nd Dumb, 
under the auspices of the Empire State Association of 
Deaf-Mutes, ait their Second Biennial Convention, held at 
Fanwood, August 28, 1867. Also Report of the Proceed- 
ings of the Convention, including addresses to Harvey P. 
Peet, LL.D., the retiring Principal of the Institution, on 
his being made the Recipient of a set of Silver Plate 
by his deaf-mute friends. . . 8vo. N. Y. 1867 

Barnard, F. A. P., LL.D., Late Professor in the New York 
Institution. 

Observations on the Education of the Deaf and Dumb. Re- 
printed from the " North American Review." 

8vo. Boston. 1834 
Existing State of the Art of Instructing the Deaf and Dumb. 
From the " Literary and Theological Review." 

8vo, N. Y. 1835 

Burnett, John R., M.A., Professor in the New York Institu- 
tion, 1830-74. 
Memoir of Harvey P. Peet, Ph.D., LL.D. 

8vo. N, Y. 1857 
Memoir of Dudley Peet, M.D. . 8vo. N. Y. 1862 

Currier, Enoch H., M.A., Principal of the Institution, 1893. 
Methods of Aural Development . 8vo. N. Y. 1886 
Catalogue of the Library . . 8vo. N. Y. 1892 
Proceedings of the Twelfth Convention of American In- 
structors 8vo. N. Y. 1890 



52 



New Yorh Institution for the 



Day, Rev. G. E., Professorin the New York Institution 1833-35. 
On tlie late Efforts in France and other Parts of Europe to 
restore the Deaf and Dumb to Hearing. Reprinted from 
the " American Journal of Science and Arts." 

8vo. N. Y. 1836 
Report on the Institutions for the Deaf and Dumb in Hol- 
land and Paris ; with special reference to Mechanical 
Articulation and Labial Reading. 8vo. Albany. 1861 

Educator, The. 3 vols 1877-79' 

Fanwood Literary Association Constitution and By-Laws. 

16mo. N. Y. 1878 

Fox, Thomas F., M.A., Professor in the Institution. 
A History of the New York Institution. 

8vo. N. Y. 1893 
Catalogue of the Library of the Institution. 

8vo. N. Y. 1893 

Industrial Training for the Deaf and Dumb. 

A Report jiresented to the Board of Directors of the Institu- 
tion. March, 1889. . . . 8vo. N. Y. 1889 

Hodgson, Edwin A., M.A., Instructor of Printing at the Insti- 
tution. 

[Ed'r.] Deaf-Mutes' Journal, The. . . . 1879-93 
Manual for the Guidance of the Printer's Apprentice. 

16rao. N. Y. 1883 

" Office Guide ;" A Directory to and Classification of Type- 
Faces, etc 8vo. N. Y. 1885 

Facts, Anecdotes and Poetry about the Deaf and Dumb. 

8vo. N. Y. 1891 

Now and Then 1873 

Peet, Harvey P., Ph.D., LL.D., Principal, 1831-1867. 

Report on Tour through'New York. . 8vo. Albany 1844 
Course of Instruction for the Deaf. . 12mo. N. Y. 1845 
Scripture Lessons for the Young. . 16mo. N. Y. 1846 
Address delivered December 2, 1846. . 8vo. N. Y. 1847 
Address at North Carolina Institution. 8vo. N. Y. 1848 
Report on Higher Education. . . 8vo. N. Y. 1852 
Report on Visit to European Institutions. 8vo. N. Y. 1852 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



53 



Peet, Harvey P., Ph.D., LL.D. — Continued. 

Statistics on Cause and Cure of Deaf ness. 8vo. N. Y. 1852 
Notions of the Deaf before Instruction. 8vo. N. Y. 1855 
Legal Rights and Responsibilities. . 8vo. N. Y. 1856 

Letters to Pupils 16mo. N. Y. 1857 

Addresses delivered on Various Occasions. 

12nio. N. Y. 1867 

Principal's Reports 1831-1867 

Peet, Isaac L., LL.D., Principal, 1867-1892. 

Manual of Vegetable Physiology. . IGmo. N. Y. 1860 
Psychical Status and Criminal Responsibility of the Totally 
Uneducated Deaf and Dumb. . . 8vo. N. Y. 1872 
Language Lessons for the Deaf. . . 12mo. N.Y. 1875 

Principal's Reports 1868-1892 

Proceedings at the Institution in memory of the late Rev. 
Wm. Adams, D.D., with an address by lion. Erastus 
Brooks. November 18, 1880. . . 8vo. N. Y. 1881 
Reports of the Institution 1-74. . . 8vo. N. Y. 1819-93 



Statistics (1889) CoNCEKNiNe Two Hundred and Thirty- 
two Graduates of the Institution. 



Thirty-seven are teachers, wz'z.; Brought forward 24 

In Hartford, Ct 1 In Fordham, N. Y. (fe- 

" Philadelphia, Pa 2 male) 1 

" Flint, Mich. (1 female). 2 " Buffalo, N. Y 2 

" Columbus, 0 1 " Raleigh, N. C ... 1 

" Indianapolis, Ind 1 " Baton Rouge, La 1 

" Jacksonville, 111 2 " Berkeley, Cal 1 

" Baltimore, Md 2 ^ " our own Institution, (2 

" Frederick, Md 3 females) 7 

" Little Rock, Ark. (1 fe- | — 

male) 2 'j ' ^'^ 

" Jackson, Miss 1 li Three are principals of In- 

" Austin, Tex 1 ji stitutions, viz., 

" Rome (Central) N. Y. . 6 I! In Dakota 1 

" Malone, N. Y 1 " Malone, N. Y. 1 

" Rochester, N. Y 1 " New Orleans, La 1 

Carried forward 24 Carried forward 40 



54 



New York Imtitution Jor the 



Statistics — Continued. 



Brought forward 40 

Superintendent of Gal- 

laudet Home 1 

Clerks in insurance offices. 
Clerks in Mercantile and 
Manufacturing Estab- 
lishments 8 

Clerks under the U. S. Gov- 
ernment 10 

Clerks under the City Gov't 2 

County Clerk 1 

Editors and proprietors of 

newspapers 5 

Author 1 

Merchants 6 

Clergyman 1 

Missionaries among deaf- 
mutes 4 

Artists, photographers and 

engravers 11 

Inventors 3 

Jeweller 1 

Farmers working their own 

farms 27 

Poultry raisers 7 

Proprietor and Manager of 

extensive nurseries... 1 

Florist 1 

Farm Hands 10 

Carried forward 142 



Brought forward 142 

Gardener 1 

Foremen and Assistant 
2 ij Foremen in printing 

offices . 5 

Compositors 23 

Proprietor of job printing 

office 1 

Cabinetmakers 4 

Carpenters 5 

Shoemakers 14 

Tailors 9 

Cutter (men's clothing). . . 1 

Boiler maker 1 

Machinist 1 

Bakers 3 

Cook and confectioner ... . 1 

Brick maker 1 

Railroad employes 2 

Longshoreman 1 

House and Sign Painters. . 3 

Mill Hands 4 

Leather-goods workers .... 2 

Undertaker 1 

Upholsterer and decorator. 1 

Cooper 1 

Supervisor 1- 

Cigarmakers 2 

Cane seaters. 2 

Total 232 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



55 



SOCIETIES OF THE PUPILS IN THE INSTITUTION. 

Fanwood Literary Association. 
[Organized in 1865.] 

Object — " Its object is the intellectual and moral improve- 
ment of its members by lectures, debates, social meetings, and 
the maintenance of a library." 

Membership — " The Principal and Instructors, and the mem- 
bers of the High Class to Sixth Class, inclusive, shall be consi- 
dered as members." 

Oficers — The Principal ex-officio, Counselor ; Thomas F. 
Fox, M.A., President ; George R. Hare, M.A., First Vice-Pre- 
sident ; James F. Britt, Second Vice-President ; Julia A. 
Hemphill, Secretary ; C. W. Van Tassell, Treasurer. Pirec- 
tors, Walter B. Peet, Chester Q. Mann, William G. Jones, 
Ida Montgomei-y, Mj^ra L. Barrager. 



Ida Montgomery Circle. 

Motto: "EXCELSIOR." 
[Organized, Sept. 18, 1886. Re-organized, Sept. 10, 1892.] 

" In loving honor of her whose life has been devoted to the 
cause of Education for the Deaf." 

. Object — " Tlie intellectual social and spiritual improvement 
of its members ; the perpetuation of the memoiy of its bene- 
factor, Ida Montgomeiy, the glory of our Alma Mater, and 
mutual assistance in the journey of life." 

Membership — "It is composed of members of the High 
Class, who were formerly under the instruction of Ida Mont- 
gomery." 

Officers — Ida Montgomery, Counselor for Life ; Mrs. Wil- 
liam H. Rose, Honorary President ; Johanna H. Buss, Acting- 
President ; Annie L. Waidler, Vice-President ; Julia A. 
Hemphill, Secretary ; Margaret A. Boyd, Treasurer. 



Silent Daughters of the King. 

Motto:-" NOBLESSE OBLIGE." 
[Organized, October, 1888.] 

Original officers — Ida Montgomery, President ; Susan L. 
Henry, Secretary ; May Martin, Treasurer, 



56 



Neil} ITorh Institution for the 



Officers — Ida Montgomery, Counselor ; Johanna Buss, Presi- 
dent ; Annie L. Waidler, Secretary. Membership 40. 



The Peotean Society. 

[Organized, Jan. 20, 1890.1 

Object — " The intellectual, moral and social elevation of its 
members, and advancing the growth of the Peet Memorial 
Fund." 

Memhershlp — " Any male member of the High Class is eligi- 
ble to membership." 

Officers — Enoch H. Currier, M.A., Counselor for Life ; 
Wilbur L. Bowers, President ; Archibald McL. Baxter, First 
Vice-President ; Martin Glynn, Second Vice-President ; .John 
H. Hogan, Secretary ; Henry Bettels, Treasurer; Frank Avens, 
Librarian ; Executive Committee, Jeremiah L. Hayes, Chair- 
man, James F. Britt, A. Burdette Smith. 



The Proteus Boat Club. 
[Organized, May 13, 1892.] 

Object — Its purpose is the physical exercise and pleasure 
of its members. 

Membership — This Club is composed of members of the 
Protean Society with associate members from the High Class. 

C>^cers— Commodore, Enoch H. Currier ; Captain, Wilbur 
L. Bowers ; First Lieutenant, Archibald McL. Baxter ; Second 
Lieutenant, James F. Britt ; Secretarj^, Martin Glynn ; Treas- 
urer, Jeremiah L. Hayes ; Executive Committee, Henry 
Bettels, Chairman, Frank Avens, A. Burdette Smith. 



Helping Hand Circle. 

Motto: "LEND A HAND." 
[Organized, Feb., 1890.] 

Object — "To improve themselves spiritually, and to aid, 
when practicable, any deserving persons, particularly deaf- 
mutes." 

Officers — Myra L. Barrager, President ; Elizabeth Ander- 
son, Secretary ; Emma Bamman, Treasurer. 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



57 



Young Fanwood Society. 
[Organized, Oct., 1891.] 
Object — " To aid in the collection of funds for the H. P. 
Peet Memorial." 

Officers — Thomas F. Fox, M.A., Counselor ; Wm. S. Abrams, 
President ; George Hamra, Vice-President ; John E. O'Brien, 
Secretary ; Herman Probst, Treasurer ; John Goor, John M. 
Black and John J. McEvoy, Committee. 



LOCAL ASSOCIATIONS. 

Empire State Association of Deaf-Mutes. 
[Organized, August, 1865.] 

Object — The object of the Association is in general to pro- 
mote the welfare, in every respect, of its members and other 
deaf-mutes. More particularly it is designed to cultivate feel- 
ings of friendship among the members, to form a bond of 
union, and afford an organization whereby they may act 
together for the common good. 

Membership — Any deaf person of fair reputation and a 
resident of the State of New York, or a graduate of one of the 
institutions for the deaf of the State, shall be eligible to 
membership. 

Officers — Thomas F. Fox, President ; Emanuel Souweine, 
Vice-President ; Jonathan H. Eddy, Secretary ; Thomas H. 
Jewell, Treasurer ; E. A. Hodgson, F. L. Seliney, T. Collins, 
Directors. 



ManhA-Ttan Literary Association. 
[Organized, March, 1884. Incorporated, Decsmber, 1891.] 
Object — Literary and social improvement of its members. 
Officers — Theodore A. Froehlich, President ; Franklin Camp- 
bell, Vice-President ; Emanuel Souweine, Second Vice-Presi- 
dent ; Max Miller, Secretary ; Alexander Meisel, Treasurer. 



58 



New York Institution for the 



Brooklyn Society of Deaf-Mutes. 



Object — Literary and Social improvement. 



Officers — Thomas Godfrey, President ; Archie J. McLaren, 
First Vice-President ; J. B. Valles, Second Vice-President ; 
James S. Orr, Secretary ; H. A. Sclanakenburg, Treasurer. 



Object — " The object of the club is to cultivate fraternal feel- 
ings, to promote the social relations, and to uphold and assist 
what is deemed helpful or beneficial to its members, as indi- 
viduals, and to the deaf at large, as a class. 

Membership — Any deaf person who has attained to the age 
of discretion, provided he be of good character and intelli- 
gence, is eligible to membership in the club. 

Officers — John F. O'Brien, President ; William Coombs, 
Vice-President ; Anthony Capelli, Secretary ; Thomas F. Fox, 
Treasurer ; Edwin A. Hodgson, Albert A. Barnes and Isaac 
N. Soper, Executive Committee. 



Fanwood Quad Club. 



[Organized, Feb. 23, 1889.] 



Employments of its Members. 



Artists 

Assistant foreman . . 

Bookbinder 

Boss Engraver. . . . 
Cigar Manufacturer 
Compositors 



Clerks 



3 Editors . 

1 Foreman Printing Office. .. 

1 Pattern Maker 

1 Salesman 

1 Shoemaker 

14 Supervisor 

2 Teachers 



2 



2 



■2 



1 



1 
1 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



59 





1,148 


o 


00 


00 


05 


3,345 


02 
65 

CO 
< 




lO 

1 CI 
CJ 




00 
iO 




m 


CO 


a 
o 






CO 


CO 


«D 

c? 


to 


CO 

lO 


M 




o 

1 CO 


CO 


i-O 
CO 


GO 
CI 




iO 

<N 


<! 






)0 
C7 
Ci 


00 

^ 


o 

CI 

o 


GO 
i.^ 


1861 


CAME De 








CO 
02 


C5 

c? 


CO 
C} 


o 


H 

m 






CO 


CJ 

o 

CO 


o 


<o 1 


1,152 


65 

G 

5 !' 
o 




CI 


o 


lO 

c? 


C3 


CO 

0? 1 


CO 




lO 

c< 


GO 


CJ 


CO 


^ 1 

T-H 1 


CJ 




•Sa[T5J\[ 


o 

c? 


1-5 

00 


CO 


00 


CI 

CI 1 


o 

CO 



EI 

Q 

C 

P 



CO 
CO 

00 



g 



1-5 C 

a 

a ^ 



o, 

;/2 





CO 




C5 




GO 


o 








GO 










3 






aj 








o 








oT 


5 


'zi 


o" 


a 


GO 


a 




•ri< 




GO 






a 




OJ 


C3 


"S. 











60 



JSTetc YorJc Institution for the 



8681 0} 8X81 
■nvj-ox anvao 


'?1t-OC5 GOf-«Di— 100550 ML-St^rJHcO-^ 

-r ^ o lo CO lo CO cj 00 o o} lo 

"^1—1 T-l ,-1 1 r-( 


1861 


1890 to 1893 


•Ib;ox 


C0-«1*-* • OWOStHOtH • COt-It-I • • OS 
TH . 1-1 -rf . . ■ T-H 


CO 

00 




W tH • - -^T-tOCJ 00 • • -i-H • • ■ -CO 


lO 
04 




CO CO ■ ?0 tH £- tH (TJ T-l • 04 tH tH • • ?0 

T-l ■ . • • I-l 


00 
lO 


o 
an 

00 

1— ( 
o 

00 




t- TH lO CO lO iH t- CO m tH CO 00 tH -coco 

CO tH TH 5D « CO CO I-l • 


tH 

CO 

CO 




00 
I-H 
04 




OOt-CO 00 00 05 -^t* lO • — ( T^l . ■ « 05 
O -I-l t- • (N tH • • 00 


CO 

T-t 

-a* 


1863 to 1874 




00?O5O(M ' 0>CO-*COtHtH(M t-COCOrHt-Ki 

■^T-io<8 la T^ ^ T-t T-ico OS 

T^ 


OS 




00 i> (M • lO 00 O T-l T-l IfS <M 00!>T-l • -^Jl lO 

«0 T-l • ,-1 TH TH -co 


-* 
OS 




00-^« i>10^<NO«0 • OJSOOiTHCOO 
00 TH CO tH CO • CQ CO 


o 

o 

CO 


1854 to 1863 


•I«lox 


COCOOO} O? CO tH U* t- -i* N T)< O •CQCOOS 
lO tH I-l TH • O 


O} 
04 
04 




CO -"^ iO ■ OO-rtl • • CO 0« tH CO 00 • TH -OS 
Ci • ■ • • • <M 


OS 




CO C4 W 1* 05 tH 1-H US iH i-H 04 • tH CO O 
CO TH tH • Tfl 


00 
04 
tH 


1818 to 1854 


•IB^OX 


C004O • 00 tH 00 Ol 00 tH CO CO 04 tH t- 00 
OOOJltS- T-t T-< 04 04C0 C! 


CO 




05 00 04 ■ J> CO SS CO tH OS lO • • CO 
CO 04 • • tH ■ • iO 


£> 

TH 




■^-*Q0 ■ ^c-THicoio • i>ooo4THeoio 

-^,-H04- TH OI-tHth £- 


^ 

04 



■m 



I- o 

K O 

o 

go 



^ CO 



-3 
5 

to .£ 



0) 



- ^ " 2 



•j; 2 
< ^ 



3 .2 -sbT^ I: 

> 0) o = 

J 2 .S rg 



■ Pn^Qfal^a! CO Ui-lSKco 



- = " 



03 



-3 ca s o ■ 



to 

bo 



Instruction of the DeaJ- and Dumb. 



£681-818: 


i— COCO-^^lOCOOt^LOOOtM 1 

i.o ^ OS CO ^ o ^ 10 c^) «o C5 

C>i T— 1 T-l r-l CO 1 

1 


1861 


1890-1893 




O5O5COO5COC0i>i-l00 - OJOS 


00 
£- 




CI CO O CI ; Ci C? 1— 1 tH • CI Ci 


CO 
CI 




COt-C^COi— liO - Ol ■ - c— 

• -I— 1 


iO 
iO 


1874-1890 




COO-^f>iOCOlOOCOC>C105 
C55005!>1OCOC?t-ii-1t-iC0t-i 


to 




CO"^01000iCOt— CliOCO 
CO W C! CI CJ 1-1 . T-H CO 


Oi 

CJ 




otooooioooof^cDOr^^ 

COCOOlOCOr-IC} tH^OO 


o 


1863-1874 




-*C«0Oi-l«D'*i>ClO5(35C«-rH 
C-10£>lOCOCO-rHTH wo 

■rH 


00 
C5 




C5iOE~-C>005C010L-OCJO— 1 
CO TH CO C5 C} CO 


to 




10?>"THOi^JOTHJ>-^i>i>CO 

coco^e^T-HCJi-H THt- 


G08 


CO 

QO 
1 

00 




ODOCOC7-hOO£-«DCJOOO 
C? ^ ^ CJ CJ rH C} 


LO 

c> 

C3 




CSiOGOCOOiO ;CI'^tHCO-^ 
r-^ y-^ • T-H 


05 


•aiBi\[ 


O tH LO O tH lO to lO C> 1— 1 o c* 

•rH CO C} 1-H rH 


rH 


1818-1854 




CO«O001O«O>O00T)<5O 0«-<i<-«i< 
10i>tOC?C*C3-rH CJ 

■rH 


CO 




O 00 -rH O CI -rH ■ CO 
CJ CJ CO -rH rH . lO 






COOOt^-rHOSOOOOCJiOCJ TrH 
CO CO -rH -rH -rH . 


^ 

C8 


AGES. 


Under one year. 
1 yr. and under 3 
3yrs. " 3 

3 " "4 

4 " "5 

5 " "0 

6 " "7 

7 " "8 

8 " "9 

9 " " 10 

10 " over 
Ages not given 


1 

V 
-4- 

c 





62 Weill Yorh Institution for the 



Year. 


Male. 


Female. 


Total. 


Year. 


Male. 


Female. 


Total. 


1818 


23 


10 


33 


1856 


194 


152 


346 


1819 


30 


20 


56 


. 1857 


200 


154 


354 


1820 


33 


19 


52 


1858 


195 


163 


358 


1821 


32 


20 


^2 


1859 


192 


165 


357 


1822 


32 


21 


53 


1860 


186 


162 


348 


1823 


31 


19 


50 


1861 


199 


153 


352 


1824 


34 


19 


53 


1862 


202 


159 


361 


1825 


37 


19 


56 


1863 


225 


167 


392 


1826 


35 


28 


63 


1864 


240 


178 


418 


1827 


35 


28 


63 


1865 


259 


191 


450 


1828 


40 


25 


65 


; 1866 


285 


194 


479 


1829 


38 


2!) 


67 


■ 1867 


296 


209 


505 


1830 


48 


37 


85 


1868 


312 


230 


542 


1831 


45 


44 


89 \ 


1869 


352 


249 


601 


1832 


48 


39 


87 


1870 


360 


258 


618 


1833 


64 


70 


134 


1871 


359 


257 


616 


1834 


74 


63 


137 


1872 


362 


247 


609 


1835 


65 


75 


140 i 


1873 


351 


251 


602 


1836 


84 


76 


160 


1874 


307 


227 


534 


1837 


79 


71 


150 


j 1875 


321 


230 


551 


1838 


76 


79 


155 


i 1876 


327 


229 


556 


1839 


86 


83 


169 


1877 


310 


197 


507 


1840 


76 


76 


152 


1878 


337 


198 


535 


1841 


83 


79 


162 


1879 


356 


222 


578 


1842 


85 


69 


154 


1880 


345 


208 


• 553 


1843 


102 


71 


173 


1881 


328 


191 


519 


1844 


96 


72 


168 


1882 


316 


184 


500 


1845 


113 


87 


200 


1883 


310 


178 


488 


1846 


117 


91 


208 


1884 


270 


149 


419 


1847 


136 


89 


225 


1885 


262 


152 


414 


1848 


124 


96 


220 


1886 


264 


149 


413 


1849 


127 


95 


222 


1887 


253 


138 


391 


1850 


128 


99 


227 


1 1888 


249 


128 


377 


1851 


135 


108 


243 


1889 


240 


125 


365 


1852 


143 


117 


260 


1890 


234 


116 


350 


1853 


178 


144 


322 


1891 


227 


108 


335 


1854 


182 


140 


322 


' 1892 


225 


105 


330 


1855 


180 


148 


328 











Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 63 
ATTENDANCE BY STv^TES AND COUNTRIES. 



Counties of the State of New Yoek. 



Albany 110 

Alleghany 15 

Broome 21 

Cattaragus 17 

Cayuga 24 

Chautauqua 36 

Chemung 20 

Chenango 30 

Clinton 19 

Oolnmbia 25 

Cortland 10 

Delaware 30 

Dutchess 43 

Erie 31 

Essex 13 

Franklin 21 

Fulton 9 

Genessee 31 

Greene 23 

Hamilton 2 

Herkimer 23 

Jelferson 48 

Kings 203 

Lewis 8 

Livingston 16 

Madison 33 

Monroe 54 

Montgomery 44 

New York 1,018 

Niagara 16 

Oneida 68 

Carried forward 2,061 



Brouglit forward 2,061 

Onondaga 65 

Ontario '. . 27 

Orange 76 

Orleans 12 

Oswego 48 

Otsego 34 

Putnam 6 

Queens 36 

Rensselaer 62 

Richmond 23 

Rockland 28 

St. Lawrence 38 

Saratoga , ... 28 

Schenectady 15 

Schoharie 42 

Schuyler 8 

Seneca 6 

Steuben 29 

Suffolk 35 

Sullivan 26 

Tioga , 8 

Tompkins 21 

Ulster 70 

Warren 10 

Washington 35 

Wayne 47 

Westchester 74 

Wyoming 17 

Yates 12 

Total from N. Y. Stijte 2,999 



64 



New YorJc Institution for the 
Feom Other States. 



Alabama 1 

California 1 

Colorado 1 

Connecticut. . 7 

District of Columbia. . . 1 

Florida 2 

Georgia 2 

Illinois 4 

Iowa 2 

Kansas 1 

Kentucky 1 

Louisiana y 

Maine 1 

Maryland 2 

Massachusetts 6 

Carried forward 35 



Brought forward 35 

Michigan 6 

Minnesota 1 

Mississippi 2 

New Jersey 216 

North Carolina '/ 

Ohio '^ 

Pennsylvania 6 

South Carolina 6 

Tennessee 2 

Vermont 5 

Virginia 8 

West Virginia 1 

Wisconsin 3 

Total 301 



From Foreign Countries. 



Africa 1 

Canada 30 

England 2 

Germany 1 

India 1 

Carried forward.. . . 35 



Brought Forward 35 

Mexico 1 

South America 4 

West Indies 5 

Total 45 



Recapitulation. 

From the State of New York 2,999 

From other States 301 

From Foreiofu Countries 45 



Grand total, 1818-1893 



3,345 



Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb. 



65 



This Institution holds in perpetual aiid grateful remembrance 
the names of its 

MUWIWICMWT BMNEWACTOMS, 



Ephraim Holbrook, 
William Dbnnistoun, 
Elizabeth Demilt, 
Madame Eliza Jumel, 
Sarah Stake, 
Sarah Demilt, 
John Noble, 
Thomas Egleston, 
Samuel S. Howland, 
Thomas Eddy, 
Benj. F. Wheelwright, 
Maria M. Hobby, 
Benjamin Abrams, 
John Alstyne, 
Mary Rogers, 



Seth Grosvenor, 

Simon V. Sickles, 

Thomas C. Chardavoyne, 

James Anderson, 

Thomas Frizzell Thompson, 

Thomas Riley, 

James N. Cobb, 

Elizabeth Gelston, 

Robert C, Goodhue, 

Daniel Marley, 

Eliza Mott, 

Samuel Willetts, 

James Kelly, 

Leona L. Bolles, 

Benjamin F. Butler, Sr. 



T 



i 



I 




A, U E, CROUTER, 



I 



A BRIEF HISTORY 



OF THE 



-Pennsylvania 



Institution 



FOR THE 



DEAF tSi DUMB. 



BY 



H. VAN ALLEN. B. A. 



ILLUSTRATED WITH NUMEROUS ENGRAVINGS 

BY 

W. R. CULLINGWORTH. 



MT. AIRY, PHILADELPHIA : 

Printed by order of the Board of Directors of thk 
Pennsylvania Institution for thk Deaf and Dumb, 

1893- 



Press of 
AVILiPRINTING COMPANY 
3941-43 narket St. 



LTHOUGH the education of 
the deaf and dumb had been 
carried on in Europe most suc- 
cessfully for many years previ- 
ously, it was not until 1815 that 
any steps were taken to establish 
a school for their instruction in 
America. In that year a num- 
ber of gentlemen in Hartford, 
Conn., furnished the means for 
sending a young clergyman, 
Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet, to 
Europe to acquaint himself with 
the methods of instructing the deaf employed there, with a view 
to their introduction in this country. Mr. Gallaudet visited Great 
Britain, and after endeavoring in vain to induce the heads of the 
English and Scotch schools to give him the desired information, 
he chanced to meet in London with the Abbe Sicard, the successor 
of the benevolent Abbe de I'Epee, who, upon learning the 
nature of Mr. Gallaudet's mission, cordially invited him to visit 
and inspect the celebrated school in Paris, of which he had charge. 
This invitation was eagerly accepted, and Mr. Gallaudet accom- 
panied the abbe to Paris. Here he was given all the information 
that he desired, and, what was perhaps of quite as much import- 
ance, secured the services of Laurent Clerc, one of Sicard's most 
brilliant pupils, who returned with him to this country as a 
teacher. 

In 1817, shortly after Mr. Gallaudet's return, the American 
Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb was opened at Hartford, and the 
work of educating the deaf in this country was fairly begun. The 
eight months between their arrival and the opening of the school 
were consumed by Mr. Gallaudet and Mr. Clerc in visiting several 
of the important cities of the country, among them Philadelphia, 
for the purpose of arousing public interest in the proposed school. 
In Philadelphia, on December 7, 1816, they addressed a public 




meeting held in Washington Hall, on South Third Street, at which 
the Chief Justice of Pennsylvania, William Tilghman, presided, 
and John Bacon acted as secretary. Great interest was aroused 
in the subject of the education of the deaf, and the meeting ap- 
pointed a committee of prominent citizens to solicit contributions 
for the proposed school. The action of the meeting in taking 




THK ABBE DE L'EPEE, 
Fouuder of the Manual Method of Teaching the Deal. 

measures to assist an enterprise without the borders of the common- 
wealth gave rise to a brief but spirited discussion in the public 
prints of the day, in the course of which the action of the meet- 
ing was as warmly defended as it was criticised.* 

It is an interesting fact that about the time Mr. Gallaudet was 
in Paris studying the method of Sicard, a pupil of the Abb6 St. 
Sernin, at Bordeaux, M. Gard, made overtures to several 
distinguished citizens of Philadelphia, and was given considerable 

• For the information in regard to the visit to Philadelphia of Mi-. Gallaudet and Mr 
Clerc, I am imlebted to a newspaper clipping preserved ill a scrap-book formerly the prop- 
erty of Jonah Thompson, and donate:! t'> llie libraiy of the Pennsylvania Institution forthe 
Deaf and Dumb by his grand-nephew, John T. Morris, a member of the present Board of 
Directors. 



encouragement to cross the ocean and establish a school in this city. 
The success of the efforts to establish the school at Hartford, and 
the fear that an attempt to establish a similar school elsewhere might 
do harm to the prospects of one or both schools, led to the drop- 
ping of the matter. The following letter written by Jonah Thomp- 
son, and published in one of the Philadelphia papers, will throw 
light upon a portion of the early history of deaf mute education 
in this country with which the public is not generally ac- 
quainted :* 




THE ABBK SICAKD, 
Successor of the AbtS de I'Kpte and Teacher of Laurent Clerc. 

As an individual whose feelings have for some lime past been consider- 
ably interested in the instruction of the deaf and dumb, I could not but 
regret'the publication of Mr. Gard's letter in a morning paper, and beg 
leaTe to submit a few observations on the remarks accompanying it. 

This letter was enclosed some months since by Mr. Lee, the American 
Consul at Bordeaux, to a number of respectable gentlemen in different 
parts of the United States, and several individuals on their own responsi- 
bility contemplated giving Mr Gard every encouragement to emigrate to 

* Tlie original draft of tliis letter is in thi' lilirary of the Peiiiis.WvaDia Institution tor 
the Deaf and Dumb. 



5 



this city. The measure was, however, abandoned by information of Mr. 
Gallaudet's progress in the necessary arrangements for forming a school in 
Connecticut, uniting the advantages of the English and French mode of 
tuition, and thereby promoting a uniform system in the United States. 

The principles of education are entirely difiTerent in those rival 
countries. Indeed almost as much dissimilarity prevails as exists in their 
respective languages. This has been occasioned by national prejudices and 
has prevented Mr. Braidwood and the Abbfe Sicard, with their adherents in 
each system, from realizing the advantages which each might have derived 




SAMUEL HEINECKE, 
Founder of the Oral Method of Teaching the Deaf. 

from the other. By the French method, attention is exclusively given to 
the improvement of the mind of the pupij and extending his mental con- 
ceptions to the highest degree of expansion and communication by signs as 
well as by writing. From the necessary abstraction from other subjects, 
except the one immediately exciting attention, we may reasonably conclude 
that from minds thus improved great perfection in science will be attained. 
Indeed it is questionable whether more sublime ideas have ever been 
expressed than those communicated in writing by the pupils of the Abb6 
Sicard, particularly by Clerc, Massieu and Gard. 

6 . 



According to the Wallis and Braidwond plan, the deaf are taught to 
speak, which is always possible when the powers of hearing are alone sus- 
pended, and when they have sufficient intellect to receive instruction. But 
this is extremely difficult. It requires greal labor, and, with the most per- 
fect, the voice is very disagreeable and monotonous. The pupil is taught 
to utter vocal sound and to know when he utters it, but as he cannot hear, 
it is long before he can ascertain the meaning of his teacher. 

After acquiring the power of uttering sound, he is taught that each letter 
produces a diflerent motion of the muscular organs of speech which is com- 
municated to the lips, and by steadily observing a speaker, he is able to 
'comprehend in this way what is expressed. 




THOMAS HOPKINS GAIXAUDKT, D. D. 

As the art is still in its infancy and the different systems are the con- 
ceptions of but a few individuals, let us now promote a language combining 
the advantages of each, or the opportunity will be forever lost of establish- 
ing a uniform system of communication without which those taught by 
different tutors will be unintelligible to each other. No individuals are better 
calculated for this purpose than Mr. Gallaudet and Mr. Clerc, and at the 
first and only establishment in the United States let persons be instructed 
to promote the important object. With this view I should decidedly con- 
ceive any attempts at introducing Mr. Gard would be impolitic and pre- 
mature. 

Mr. Thompson's wise counsel wa.« followed, and the citizens of 
Philadelphia gave their undivided support to the school at 



7 



Hartford. No steps were taken at the time towards the founding of 
a school in Pennsylvania, and the establishment of the Pennsyl- 
vania Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, the third oldest in the 
country * and now admittedly the finest and most complete school 
for the deaf in the world, was brought about in an altogether 
unlooked-for way. 

There were quite a number of deaf children in Philadelphia, 
who were frequently to be seen wandering about the streets, excit- 
ing by their neglected appearance and uncouth gesture the 
laughter and ridicule of the cruel and thoughtless, and the interest 
and compassion of the benevolent. To one man in Philadelphia 
the miserable condition of these children appealed most power- 
fully, and led him to perform an act of practical philanthropy 
which deserves to be forever held in grateful remembrance. This 
was David G. Seixas, an humble Israelite, who kept a little crock- 
ery store on Market street, between Sixteenth and Seventeenth 
streets. Picking up on the streets a number of these children he 
clothed and fed several out of his scanty means, and, with other 
deaf children whom he induced to come, instructed them as best 
he could. What particular method of instruction he pursued is 
not certainly known. He was doubtless aware of the main inci- 
dents of Laurent Clerc's visit to Philadelphia, if he was not 
actually present at the public meeting, and he had probably read 
of the methods of instruction pursued at Hartford, of accounts of 
which the newspapers of the day were full, and with this meagi-e 
knowledge, supplemented by the crude sign language which his 
ingenuity devised, he was able to begin the education of his unfor- 
tunate charges. The little school, which must have been estab- 
lished late in 1819, or early in 1820, had eleven pupils, five boys and 
six girls. Notwithstanding his lack of experience the success of 
Mr. Seixas must have been considerable, for the fame of the little 
school and of its devoted teacher spread rapidly and enlisted the 
sympathy and support of the philanthropic people of the city. 

On the ninth of April, 1820, several prominent citizens, among 
whom were Roberts Vaux, Horace Binney, Clement C. Biddle, 
Jacob Gratz, Dr. N. Chapman, William Wilkins, of Pittsburg, and 
Joseph Correa de Serra, the Portuguese Minister, met Mr. Seixas, 
by appointment, at the house of Mr. Vaux, and after a lengthy 
interview, decided to call a public meeting to consider the propriety 
of establishing an institution for the education of the deaf and dumb. 

♦ TheN.wTork Ir ftitntioi] Icr the Education ( f the Deaf nnd Dumb w»» o[ sued io 
Hay, 1820. 



The meeting was held in the hall of the Philosophical Society, 
on South Third Street, on Wednesday evening, April 12. Kt. 
Rev. William White presided and William Meredith acted as 
secretary. Mr. Vaux made an address, in which he submitted a 
plan for organizing an institution. This plan was referred to a 
committee, of which Mr. Vaux was chairman. The report of this 
committee was submitted at a meeting held on Saturday evening, 
April 15. The constitution presented by the committee was 
adopted with some amendment, and was signed by those present. 
The constitution was as follows : 

Article I. The Institution shall be located in Philadelphia, and sup- 
ported by the annual and life subscriptions of its members, by the donations 
and legacies of the charitable, by such aid as the Legislature may be pleased 
to afford, and by the money to be received for the education of children 
whose parents, guardians or friends are of ability to pay. 

Article II. The officers of the Institution shall be a president, four 
vice-presidents, a treasurer and recording secretary. They shall be ex- 
oflBcio members of the Board of Directors, and their duties shall be such as 
are implied in their titles, or shall be prescribed by the by-laws. And 
said oflBcers shall not receive any fee or compensation for their service in 
performing their several duties, either directly or indirectly, excepting the 
treasurer and secretary. 

Article III. There shall be a board of twenty-four directors, members 
of the Institution, who shall annually, at the meeting next succeeding their 
election, appoint one of their number to act as corresponding secretary. 
Their duties shall be such as shall be defined by the by-laws. There shall 
also be a committee of twelve ladies selected annually by the Board of 
Directors at their first meeting, to aid in the management of the asylum 
under such provisions as may from time to time be prescribed by the 
by-laws. 

Article IV. Any person shall be entitled to become a member by pay- 
ing annually, or in gross, the sum which shall be required by the by-laws 
for an annual or life subscription. 

Article V. The members of the Institution shall meet annually on the 
first Wednesday in May, in the city of Philadelphia, (at such hour as the 
directors may prescribe) for the election of ofiHcers and directors and the 
transaction of other business, and to receive the annual report of the direc- 
tors. Adjourned and special meetings may be held as shall be provided 
by the by-laws. 

Article VI. The right of membership may be relinquished, and the 
resignation addressed in writing to the Board of Directors shall be accepted 
by them ; Provided, the member shall have discharged all demands due 
by him or her to the Institution. 

Article Vtl. The funds of the Institution shall be at the disposal and 
under the management of the Board of Directors, subject, however, so far as 
relates to that part derived from the life subscriptions, to such restrictions 
as may be imposed by the by-laws, and subject also to such restrictions as 



9 



may accompany the grant of aid by the Legislature. And it shall be the 
duty of the directors for the time being to present to the speaker of the 
Senate and of the House of Representatives, respectively, in the month of 
December, annually, a statement of the funds and expenses of the Institu- 
tion, and of the number of children received and educated therein during 
the year immediately preceding, and of the parts of the Stale whence they 
have come, distinguishing between those who have been supported and 
educated gratuitously, and others. 

Article VIII. Indigent children, resident anywhere within the State, 
shall be received into the school and asylum, maintained and educated 
gratuitously so far as the funds of the Institution will admit ; Provided, 
that when more children shall be offered for the benefit of this Institution 
than can be received at any one time, the president and directors shall 
apportion their number among the several Counties of this Commonwealth, 
according to their representation (when application shall be made) that 
every County may equally receive the benefits of the same. 

Article IX. The number of officers and directors may be increased or 
diminished, as convenience shall require, at any annual meeting of the 
members of the Institution, notice of the intended alteration being pre- 
viously given, and twenty members, being a majority of the members 
present, consenting ; and any general meeting shall be competent to make, 
alter or repeal by-laws, rules and regulations, twenty-one members being 
present at the same. 

A third meeting was held on Wednesday evening, April 26 
when the following officers and directors were elected : President, 
Rt. Rev. William White ; Vice-Presidents, Robert Patterson, 
Horace Binney, Roberts Vaux, Dr. N. Chapman ; Secretary, 
Henry J. Williams ; Treasurer, John Bacon ; Directors, William 
Meredith, John Vaughan, Clement C. Biddle, Jacob Gratz, J. N. 
Barker, General T. Cadwalader, William J. Duane, Samuel 
Archer, Paul Beck, R. Walsh, Jr., Alexander Henry, Rev. P. F 
Mayer, Dr. William Price, Calender Irwin, Reuben Haines, Dr. 
Franklin Bache, Samuel B. Morris, W. W. Fisher, Benjamin 
Tilghman, Caleb -Cresson, William Mcllvaine, Joseph Gratz, 
Samuel Canby and Samuel R. Wood. 

It is worthy of note, as illustrative of the abiding interest which 
the members of the original Board took in the welfare of the 
school, that most of them continued to take an active part in 
the management of the Institution to the time of their deaths, 
and that many of them are represented on the present lioard by 
descendants in the third generation. 

The Board of Directors appointed a committee to confer with 
Mr. Seixas, with a view of securing his services as teacher, and 
another committee to prepare an address to the inhabitants of 
Pennsylvania, setting forth the objects of the Institution and 



soliciting pecuniary aid. At the next meeting of the Board, held 
May 6, it was announced that Mr. Seixas had been engaged at a 
salary of $1000 per annum, 

Mr. Seixas was installed as principal on May 15, and the little 
class met for the time being at his house. On May 25 a public 
exhibition was given at Washington Hall, with the result of still 
further awakening public interest in the school. The number of 
pupils rapidly increased, substantial assistance was accorded the 
young Institution by the wealthy and philanthropic, and all things 
pointed to a future of rapid growth and great usefulness. 




RIGHT REV. WILLIAM WHITE, D D. 
First President of the Institution. 



During the summer of 1820 in accordance with the instruc- 
tions of the Board, Mr. Seixas visited the Hartford school and 
made a careful inquiry into the methods of instruction in use 
there. Upon his return he reported very strongly in favor of the 
manual method of instruction, and urged that the directors secure 
a house for the exclusive use of the Institution. Accordingly, in 
August, a house on High (now Market) street, near Seventeenth, 
formerly occupied by the Widow's Society, was secured, and Mary 
Cowgill was appointed matron. Here the school opened in the 
fall of 1820. 

II 



On January 10, 1821, Mr. Seixas, with six of his pupils, gave 
an exhibition at Harrisburg before the members of the Legisla- 
ture, and as a result an act incorporating the Institution was unani- 
mously passed by both Houses, and received the approval of the 
Governor on February 8. At the same time an appropriation of| 
$8000 was made to aid the school, and the State Treasurer was 
authorized to pay $160 for each deaf child educated therein, the 
total amount so paid, however, not to exceed $8000. The term 
of instruction was limited to three years. 




DAVID G. SEIXAS, 
First Principal of the Institution. 



As a result of this generous assistance from the State the attend- 
ance rapidly increased, and before the end of the year the 
accommodations on West Market Street were found insuflBcient. 
A more commodious house, on the corner of Market and Eleventh 
streets, where the Bingham House now stands, was accordingly 
leased for a term of three years. In May, Charles Dillingham, a 
graduate of Williams College, was appointed a teacher, and in 
September his sister. Miss Abigail Dillingham, who had been a 
pupil at the Hartford school, also took charge of a class. In 
March, 1822, the corps of instructors was further increased by the 
addition of Abraham B. Hutton, who thus began a connection 

12 



with the school which extended over a period of nearly fifty 
years, and terminated only with his death. 

In October, 1821, Mr. Seixas retired from the principalship of 
the Institution. With some difficulty the directors of the Ameri- 
can Asylum at Hartford were induced to release Laurent Clerc 
for a period of six months, and he was placed in charge of the 
school. During his brief stay Mr. Clerc introduced fully the 
methods practiced at Hartford and gave much valuable instruc- 
tion to the teachers. His stay was extended to seven months, 
and upon his departure the school was the equal of any in the country. 




HOUSE OK THK WIDOWS' SOCIETY ON MARKET STREET, 
Occupied by the Institution in 1821. 

Lewis Weld, who held the position of first assistant at Hartford, 
was called to succeed Mr. Clerc. Mr. Weld was a graduate of 
Yale College, and had intended to enter the ministry, but was in- 
duced by Mr. Gallaudet to enter upon the work of teaching the 
deaf — a work to which he devoted his best energies to the day of 
his death.* At this time the number of pupils in the Pennsylvania 
Institution was fifty-one, forty of whom were State pupils. The 
State of New Jersey had made provisions (November 10, 1821) 
for the education of her indigent deaf children, and up to the 
time when she established an institution of her own, a considerable 
proportion were educated in the Pennsylvania Institution for the 
Deaf and Dumb. 

*His daughter, Miss Mary E. Weld, is now a valued member of the Ladles' Comniitteo 
of the Institution. 



Under Mr. Weld's able management the school prospered 
greatly. The number of pupils steadily increased and before the 
expiration of the lease it became evident that the accommodations 
at Eleventh and Market streets were inadequate and that more 
commodious quarters must be sought. In 1 824 a site at the north- 
west corner of Broad and Pine streets was secured and here was 
erected the central portion of the buildings, which, with numerous 
additions and alterations, were to be the home of the Institution 
for nearly seventy years. The new building was occupied in 
December, 1825, and on December 30 following a reception was. 
held, at which there was a large attendance of distinguished people. 
An eloquent address was made by the principal, Mi-. Weld, and 
an exhibition was given of the attainments of the pupils. 




THE INSTITUTION AT ELEVENTH AND MARKET STREETS, 1821-1824. 

The new building afforded room for a much larger number of 
pupils than before, and in 1827, provisions having been made by 
the State Legislature, the Institution began to receive the indigent 
deaf children of Maryland. At a later period the State of Dela- 
ware made provisions for the education of its deaf children in this 
Institution. 

In 1828 the Institution acquired the entire block bounded by 
Broad, Pine, Fifteenth and Asylum streets. In 1832 a school 
house was erected in the rear of the main building, thus consider- 
ably increasing the facilities of the Institution. 

In October, 1830, the principal, Mr. Weld, was called to Hart- 
ford to take charge of the American Asylum, from the principal- 

14 



ship of which Rev. T. H. Gallaudet had just retired, and A. B. 
Hutton was appointed to the vacancy thus created. Mr. Hutton 
filled the position most ably and acceptably until his death in 1870. 

The long period intervening between 1830 and 1870 was 
marked by no startling events, but was characterized by steady 
growth and improvement. The efforts of the directors to give the 
blessing of education to the deaf of the State were liberally sec- 
onded by the Legislature, which in 1837 appropriated $20,000, 
and a few years later the further sura of $8000 to enable the In- 
stitution to enlarge its buildings to accommodate the increasing 
attendance. The two lateral wings were extended westward, and 




LAURENT CLERC, 
Principal 1821-22. 

the chapel addition was built to the central portion of the build- 
ing and this enlargement increased the capacity of the building 
to 160. The number of pupils at this time was 107. The State had 
sometime before extended the term of instruction to six years. 

For several years the growth of the Institution was retarded by 
the smallness of the legislative appropriations, but in 1854 the 
State inaugurated a more liberal policy, and to accommodate the 
increased attendance the north and south wings were added to the 
central building. The capacity of the building was thus increased 
to 200. 



In less than five years the building was crowded to its utmost 
capacity, and in 1859 the board of directors came to the conclu- 
sion that it would be advisable to sell the property at Broad and 
Pine streets and secure a site in the country, but within easy 
reach of the city. This step was all the more desirable because 
the property of the Institution, although originally on the outskirts 
of the city, was now rapidly being surrounded by new streets and 
dwellings. The civil war, however, with its disastrous effects upon 
the financial condition of the country, prevented the sale of the 
property on advantageous terms, and the design was abandoned 
for the time being. However, the desirability of a location in the 
country was not lost sight of and in subsequent years various 
plans for effecting a removal were brought forward. During the 
trying times of the war the demands for admission decreased some- 
what, although still exceeding the ability of the Institution to grant,. 




LEWIS WELD, 
Principal 1822-1830. 

and this furnished an additional reason for deferring action in the 
matter, at that time at least. The State, however, voluntarily in- 
creased the per capita appropriation, in view of the'increase in the 
cost of the necessaries of life, and it was decided to slightly enlarge 
the buildings. In 1863, therefore, an additional story [was added 
to the two wings in the rear. 

On July 18, 1870, the Institution suffered the loss 'of its able 
and devoted principal, Abraham B. Hutton. Mr. Hutton)_died 
at Stuyvesant, N. Y., while on a visit to his sister. Joshua Foster, 
who had been a teacher in the Institution for upwards of thirty 
years was appointed to succeed him. 

The fifteen years of Mr. Foster's principalship' may be termed 
the transition period of the Institution. While not itself marked 
by any striking events or important changes, during this period 



ID 
Q 




< 
LU 
Q 

LLl 
I 



o 

u. 

z 
o 
I- 

D 
H 

I- 

co 
z 



z 
< 
> 

> 

CO 
z 
z 

UJ 

CL 

LU 
I 
H 



were slowly shaped those forces which at a later day were des- 
tined to exert a marked influence upon the future of the Institu- 
tion. 

From the time of the establishment of the Institution the 
Board of Directors had been assisted in the management of the 
school, and especially in the direction of the affairs of the domes- 
tic department, by a committee of ladies. Through the exertions 
of this committee the inception was made in 1871 of a fund for 
the aid of destitute deaf-mutes, which steadily grew from year to 
year by donations and bequests. This fund was the means of 
assisting many worthy graduates to make a start in life. At a 
later date a portion of the income of this fund was devoted to 
assisting deserving graduates of the school to take a course at the 




THE INSTITUTION AT BROAD AND PINE STREETS IN 1824. 

National Deaf Mute College. At one time the ladies seriously 
considered the advisability of establishing a " nursery " at some 
suburban point for the training of young deaf children before 
they were of school age. However, the extension of the term of 
instruction allowed by the State, permitting the admission of 
children at a considerably earlier age, and the conviction founded 
upon experience and observation, that the proper place for a very 
young deaf child is at home with its mother, led the committee 
to defer action upon the matter. 

On February 8, 1871, the fiftieth anniversary of the founding 
of the Institution was celebrated by a gathering of the graduates, 
The celebration began with religious exercises at St. Stephen's 

17 



Church in the morning, and in the afternoon a meeting was held at 
Rev. Dr. Wylie's church on Broad Street, opposite the Institution. 
Addresses were delivered by Thomas Jefferson Trist, John Car- 
liii, Joseph O. Pyatt and others. The exercises of the day con- 
cluded with a rt^ception and banquet at the Institution in the 
evening. Some three hundred graduates were present on this 
interesting occasion, and as a result of the gathering a fine oil 
portrait of Lewis Weld, painted by John Carlin, one of the grad- 
uates, was presented to the Institution. 

In spite of repeated enlargements, in 1875 it was found neces- 
sary to adopt some means to increase the capacity of the Institu- 
tion, the number of pupils at that time being 225, and the num- 
ber of applications for admission being far beyond the ability of 




ABRAHAM B HUTTON, 
Principal, 1830-1870. 



the Institution to accept. Efforts had been made in vain to ob- 
tain a suitable site in the suburbs, and the city of Philadelphia 
had been appealed to without avail to donate a site, and the 
Board of Directors therefore concluded to enlarge the existing 
edifice. The fine brick structure occupying the whole western 
half of the Institution property and containing ample play-rooms 
and dormitories and numerous school-rooms, was accordingly 
erected. This improvement increased the capacity of the school 
to 350. 

In July, 1876, the convention of the American Instructors of 
the Deaf and Dumb met at, and was entertained by, the Insti- 
tution. 

n 



For a considerable period the Board of Directors had been 
considering the advisability of opening a day-school in connec- 
tion with the Institution for the benefit of deaf children residing 
in the immediate neighborhood of the Institution. It was hoped 
that the establishment of a school of this kind, for which accom- 
modations would be required only during school hours, would 
serve as an expedient for relieving the Institution from its 
crowded condition, while, at the same time, it would make it pos- 
sible to extend the benefits of education to a much larger propor- 
tion of the deaf children of the city. In 1871 an inquiry was 
made to ascertain the number of children whose parents would 
be willing to send them to such a school. The number was so 




THE INSTITUTION IN 1837. 



small, however, that the project was temporarily abandoned, 
though not lost sight of In 1881 the day-school was finally 
opened at Seventeenth and Chestnut streets, under charge of Miss 
Emma Garrett, who had been in the employ of the Institution as 
teacher of articulation for some time. The method of instruction 
adopted was what is known as the " pure oral." . The origi- 
nal intention had been to make room for the day-school at Broad 
and Pine streets, but on account of the difference of the methods 
pursued an entire separation of the two schools was deemed 
advisable. 

The history of oral teaching in the Pennsylvania Institution for the 
Deaf and Dumb is at once peculiar and interesting. The system of 



'9 



instruction originally adopted by the Institution was the manual 
or Sicard system, and for half a century the employment]of no other 
was attempted. There are indeed vague hints of efforts to preserve 
and cultivate the speech of such serai-mutes as retained some 
power of articulation, but no systematic instruction, as we now 
understand it, was undertaken. In 1870, however, the Board of 
Directors, impressed by the reports of the success of speech teach- 
ing that reached them, sent a committee consisting of F. Morti- 
mer Lewis, James J. Barclay, and the principal, Joshua Foster, 
to inspect the Clarke Institution at Northampton, Mass., and the 




JOSHUA FOSTER, 
Principal, 1870 1884. 

articulation departments of the Hartford and New York Institu- 
tions. This committee was so favorably impressed that upon its re- 
turn it recommended that arrangements be at once made for giving 
instruction in articulation to all semi-mute and semi-deaf children. 
Miss Rebecca Cropper was sent to New York for instruction under 
Professor Bernard Engelsmann, and upon her return was placed in 
charge of the articulation class. In 1876 Mr. Edward Crane, a 
pupil of Alexander Graham Bell, was placed at the head of the 
articulation department. The success attending this form of 
instruction was so marked that the Board was led to consider the 
advisability of introducing sejjarate oral instruction for such 

2e 



pupils as retained a considerable command of speech, and, inci- 
dentally, as a means of testing the practicability of teaching 
speech to the congenitally deaf. When, therefore, the day-school 
was established it was decided to employ the oral method exclu- 
sively. Instruction in articulation at Broad and Pine streets was 
carried on without interruption. 

The growth of the "day-school" was rapid. In 1883 the 
attendance was 70, and nine teachers were employed. Early in 
that year the accommodations at Seventeenth and Chestnut streets 
were found to be inadequate and the school was removed to a 
larger house at the corner of Eleventh and Clinton streets. The 
experiment of a day-school did not prove as satisfactory as had 




THE INSTITUTION IN 1892. 

been anticipated, and in 1885 it became a boarding-school, and 
was known thereafter as the Branch for Oi'al Instruction. 

At the main Institution an experimental class was formed in 
which the children were taught in the school-room by speech 
alone, but were permitted to mingle with the manually taught 
children out of school. A second class for this species of instruc- 
tion v/as subsequently formed. Thus the Institution had experi- 
ments in three kinds of speech-teaching going forward at one and 
the same time and it was upon the practical results obtained, and 
not upon any mere theory, that subsequent action in regard to 
speech-teaching was based. In 1887 it was determined to discon- 
tinue the teaching of articulation to the pupils of manual classes, 
and at the present time the oral work of the school is carried on 

21 



in a pure oral department, and a pmall oral class in connection 
with the manual department. 

In July, 1884, the principal, Mr. Foster, resigned the position 
■which he had so long and so honorably filled, and A. L. E. 
Crouter, who for a year preceding had acted as vice-principal, and 
who had been a teacher in the school since 1867, was appointed 
his successor. 

The first year of Mr. Crouter's administration was marked by 
several important changes and improvements. The Oral Branch 
was enlarged so as to accommodate one hundred pupils, thus making 
it one of the largest oral schools in the country, the co-education 
of the sexes in the classes was begun and gradually extended to 




SCHOOL BUILDING, CORNER OF PINE AND FIFTEENTH STREETS, iSgi. 

the entire school, and new industries were introduced in the indus- 
trial department. 



In 1888 the educational work at the main Institution was div ided 
into two departments, the primary, under F. W. Booth, as chief 
instructor, and the advanced, under the immediate charge of the 
principal. 

In 1889 it became evident that a new site for the Institution 
must be sought at once. The accommodations both at the main 
Institution and at the "Oral Branch" were entirely inadequate, and 
it was felt that the wisest plan was to remove the Institution to a 
suburban point, where greater healthfulness could be secured and 
where there would be ample room for future growth. From the 
time of its organization the Institution had been the recipient of 

22 



gifts and legacies from benevolent people, and during the year a 
bequest of two hundred thousand dollars from James and Mary 
Shields became available. These funds enabled the Institution to at 
length take the important step which it had so long had in contem- 
plation. A tract of sixty-two acres in the northwestern portion of 
the city, in an elevated and healthful locality known as Mt. Airy, 
and situated between, and but a short distance from the suburban 
lines of the Pennsylvania and Philadelphia and Reading Railways, 
was secured, and the erection was begun shortly after of the mag- 




BRANCH FOR ORAL INSTRUCTION, 1883. 
Eleventh and Clinton Streets. 

nificent group of buildings which now constitute the finest institu- 
tion for the education of the deaf in the countr}'. 

The plan upon which the new Institution was built was the result 
of careful consideration of the advantages of the various styles of 
building adopted for large public institutions, and equally careful 
attention to the needs of the peculiar work carried on by the school. 
The general plan is a combination of the congregate and cottage style 
of building. At the outset it was evident that the prominence 
given to separate oral instruction demanded a general division of 
the pupils into two parts, the manually and the orally taught. It 
was also desirable that there should be such flexibility of plan 
that changes in the relative number in the two divisions might be 



23 



readily made should circumstances so demand. The requirements 
to be met were, therefore, first, a general division of the two sys- 
tems of teaching ; secondly,- a separation of the younger from the 
older pupils ; thirdly, in each of these sections, a division by sex, 
and finally, in each of these resultant parts, a stiil further division 
into small groups and families to facilitate supervision. 

It was, thei'efore, decided to erect four department buildings, to 
be known, for the present at least, as the advanced, intermediate, 
primary and oral departments, each complete in itself, with its own 
dining-rooms, dormitories^ assembly rooms, play grounds, etc., and 
with its own school-house in the rear. The general plan of all these 
department buildings is the same. Each consists of a central por- 
tion, containing the dining-room, assembly-hall, office and recep- 
tion room, parlor, kitchen, etc., and on opposite sides of this there 
are wings for the male and female pupils. In the wings there are 
provisions for separating the older pupils from the younger, thus 
dividing them into groups and greatly facilitating oversight by the 
officers. The assembly-room on the second floor of each de- 
partment building is connected with the school-house in the rear 
by a covered bridge, and this latter is entirely given up to school 
purposes. Around these four department buildings are grouped 
an administration building, containing the general assembly-hall 
of the Institution, the general library, board-rooms and offices ; a 
gymnasium ; an industrial building, where under one roof all the 
varied industries taught by the school may be gathered, and fin- 
ally, a boiler and dynamo house, connected with all the other 
buildings by tunnels, and supplying them with power, light and 
heat. The excellent view of the buildings and grounds of the 
Institution on the opposite page gives a better idea of their beauty 
and completeness than any written description. 

On October 8, 1892, three of the four department buildings 
and the boiler and dynamo house were formally opened in the 
presence of a distinguished gathering of prominent people. Ad- 
dresses appropriate to the occasion were 'm'ade by George Gilpin, 
Rev. Dr. Joseph A. Seiss, Principal A. L. E. Crouter, President E. 
M. Gallaudet, Dr. A. G. Bell and Dr. Isaac L. Peet. On Novem- 
ber 18, the school reopened in its new home. At the present 
writing the industrial building is rapidly approaching completion, 
and the Board of Directors only awaits a favorable opportunity 
to carry out the other details of the plan. 

Thus very nearly upon the completion of three quarters of a cen- 
tury of faithful and successful work the Institution enters upon a new 



24 



era with enlarged facilities and with a future brightened by the 
prospect of a constantly expanding field of usefulness and the 
promise of grander achievements in its noble and disinterested 
work. With the opening of this era this brief history appro- 
priately ends. 

A sketch of the Institution would be incomplete, however, with- 
out some reference to the nature of its educational work. We 
cannot enter into the details of the methods of teaching em- 
ployed, but a brief outline will give an idea of the extent and 
thoroughness of this instruction. 

The work of the school may be broadly divided into manual 
and oral. In the oral department the instruction is wholly by 
speech. Signs are entirely discarded, and as far as possible, pro- 
hibited, the aim being to make speech and speech-reading, supple- 
mented by writing, the sole means of instruction and communica- 
tion. In the manual department the instruction is by means of 
English, either spelled or written, the use of signs, although not 
forbidden to the pupils as a means of intercommunication, being 
reduced to a minimum, and every encouragement being given to 
the pupil to substitute for them either writing or spelling. In 
other respects the general methods of development in the two 
departments are similar, action writing, picture writing, and the 
interrogative method of testing and adding to information being 
largely relied upon for purposes of language teaching and mental 
development. The work in both departments is divided into 
primary and advanced stages, the former covering the first foui- 
and the latter the last six years of the term of instruction. In 
the former, attention is devoted principally to developing the 
faculties and imparting knowledge, and in the latter stage the 
elements of a common school education are imj^arted. The ulti- 
mate ends of oral and manual training are similar, the aim being 
to give a good English education and to prepare for college those 
who may desire to pursue a higher course of instruction. 

The history of the Institution has been marked by the readi- 
ness displayed by the Board of Directors to adopt every improve- 
ment that gave reasonable promise of benefit to the pupils. This 
has been especially true in regard to methods of Instruction, and 
while always conservative in its policy, the institution has kept fully 
abreast of contemporary progress. The method of instruction at 
first adopted was the manual or Sicard, and as no evidence was 
brought forward, in this country at least, to dispute its claim to 
superiority, it was conscientiously and zealously pursued. When, 



however, the success of methods of teaching the deaf speech and 
by speech was demonstrated, they were at once introduced into 
the Institution and subjected to a practical test under the eyes 
of the Board of Directors. Satisfactory as the results were, no 
undue haste was displayed to extend the scope of oral teaching until 
it was demonstrated beyond question" that a much larger per cent- 
age of the deaf could profit by oral teaching than was generally 
supposed. Then, very gradually, oral teaching was extended, and 
at the present time the Institution is slowly and carefully advanc- 
ing to that mean between systems and methods which shall 
assure to each and every pupil the greatest possible measure of bene- 
fit. I cannot better describe the aim of the Institution in this 
respect than by quoting from the able address of the principal, 
Mr. Crouter, on the occasion of the opening of the new buildings 
of the Institution at Mt. Airy : 

" In the pursuit of its object this Institution recognizes all methods of 
acknowledged educational value ; in the instruction of its pupils it employs 
that method that promises most benefit to the child. May it be taught to 
speak, it insists upon the use of pure oral methods. Should results not 
seem to justify the prolonged employment of such means they are discon- 
tinued and the instruction of the child is carried forward by manual methods 
— spelling, writing, picture-reading and signs. It is believed that in pursu- 
ing this course the great end and aim of the Institution may best be sub- 
served, and the welfare of every pupil best be promoted. It is but right to 
mention in this connection thai the work of the school is tending more and 
more toward oral methods, and that all pupils who come to us hereafter 
shall, by a decision of the Directors, have opportunity of profiting by that 
method. 

As at present organized the intellectual work of the Institution is con- 
ducted in an oral department in which fully forty per cent of the attend- 
ance share in the benefits of oral methods, and in a manual depart ment, 
subdivided into primary and advanced sections, wherein the instructit/n of 
the remainder is carried on by manual methods. Shall the oral department 
increase until it absorbs the whole or greater part of the manual depart- 
ment? Results alone must answer that important question. Certain it is 
that whatever method accomplishes most for the culture and well-b^ing of 
our pupils the Board of Managers will not hesitate to adopt and carry for- 
ward with the utmost diligence and zeal. 

Below is given a brief outline of the course of instruction : 

FIRST GRADE. 

a. Language, (oral and written). 

b. Arithmetic. 
e. Penmanship. 

a. Articulation and Speech-reading. Nouns: objects in the class- 
room ; articles of dress ; articles of food : articles of furniture in daily use ; 



27 



parts of the body ; names of most common animals and birds ; names of 
classmates and teachers ; divisions of time, as morning, noon, evening, day, 
night, days of the week, and months of the year. [The articles a, an and 
the are to be taught with these words ; also the singular and plural forms.] 
Adjectives : such as good, bad, young, old, sweet, sour, hard, soft, wise, stupid, 
weak, strong, pretty, homely, light, heavy, quick, slow, etc., etc. ; color, as black, 
red, white, blue, green, yellow ; numeral adjectives, as one, two, three, four, five, 
etc. Conjunction, amd. Prepositions: in, into, out of, on, over, under, by, 
for, 0^. Pronouns: personal pronouns, /, you, he, she, it, in all cases and 
numbers. Verbs: to be (present and imperfect tenses,) and verbs thnt ex- 
press simple actions, (see first two columns of verbs in the vocabulary). 
Simple Questions : who, what, where, do, have, can, and to be. The princi- 
pal elements of a sentence are indicated and their relations to one another 
are shown by the use of figures. 

6. Writing numbers to 20, and mental addition and subtraction. How 
many ? 

c. Careful instruction with crayon and pencil, to be followed by pen and 
ink exercises in books. 

SECOND GRADE. 

a. Language, (oral and written). 

b. Arithmetic. 

c. Penmanship. 

d. Drawing. 

a. A two months' review of First Grade work. Articulation and Speech- 
reading. Nouns: Names of the parts of the bodies of quadrupeds, birds and 
fishes ; names of implements in common use about the house, barn, farm, etc. 
Adjectives: continued, as in First Grade, together with this, that, these, those, 
many, a few, several, some. Conjunctions: but and or. Pronouns : same as 
in First Grade, adding myself, himself, herself, and their plurals. Prepositions : 
from, at, through, of, before, behind, between, after, around. Verbs : second two 
columns of verbs in the vocabulary ; present, past, future tenses, the infin- 
itive mood ; simple and compound actions ; may and must. Adverbs : simple 
adverbs, as not, often, never, sometimes, now, soon, very, much, etc. Simple 
Questions : with whose, which, when, will, and may. The figures 1, 2, 3, 4, 
and 5 are used to indicate the principal elements in a sentence, and to show 
their relations to one another. 

6. Mental addition and subtraction in practical problems ; dollars and 
cents ; notation to 500. 

c. Copy-book work. 

d. On paper and board. 

THIRD grade. 

o. Language, (oral and written). 
6. Arithmetic. 
c Penmanship, 
d. Drawing. 

a. Articulation and Speech-reading. Nouns: The different classes 
of artisans ; the articles made by each ; their use, etc., the time of day ; the 

28 



seasons. Adjectives : their comparison — three degrees, including more, 
and most, each, and every, one, other, another. Conjunctions : if and became. 
Pronouns: the relatives who and which. Prepositions: without, among, 
along, near, above, below, within, etc. Verbs : present, past and future tenses 
continued; the infinitive and imperative moods ; thorough drill on «n7Z and 
would, can and could. Adverbs: continued as in Second Grade. Collo- 
quial and narrative forms. Elliptical exercises. Action and picture 
writing. Journal and simple stories. Figures are used to show the gram- 
matical relations of the parts of a sentence. 

b. Multiplication and division. Mental exercises in addition, subtrac- 
tion, multiplication and division. Practical problems involving the four 
rules. Currency continued. 

c. Copy-book exercises, twice a week. 

d. Prang's Drawing Book, No. 1. 

FOURTH GRADE. 

a. Language, (oral and written). 

b. Arithmetic. 

c. Penmanship. 

d. Geography. 

e. Drawing. 

a. Articulation and Speech-reading. Nouns: continued miscella- 
neously ; fomebody, nobody and anybody. Adjectives : comparisons of, 
continued. Conjunctions : ei</ie?- — or, neither — nor, when, while, and since. 
Pronouns J personal and relative, continued. Prepositions: completed. 
Verbs: active and passive voices ; exercises in the indicative, infinitive 
and imperative moods ; have and had, may and might, shall and should. 
Adverbs: of time, place and manner. Elliptical exercises. Description 
of actions, pictures, persons, animals, and things. Historical sketches. 
Journals. Stories. Letter-writing. Figures are used to show the gram- 
matical relations of the parts of a sentence. 

b. Addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. Mental and 
practical problems. Currency continued. 

c. Copy-book exercises, twice a week. 

d. Divisions of land and water. Map of the United States (outline). 

e. Prang's Drawing Book, No. 2. 

FIFTH GRADE. 

a. Language, (oral and written). 
6. Arithmetic. 

c. Geography. 

d. Penmanship. 

e. Drawing. 

a. Articulation and Speech-reading. Nouns, pronoun.s, adjectives, 
adverbs, prepositions, and conjunctions, continued as in Fourth Grade. 
Special drill in the active and passive voices, and the use of aux- 
iliary verbs ; present and perfect participle. Action and picture writing. 
Historical sketches continued. Natural history. Journal. Stories. 



29 



b. Practical exercises involving addition, subtraction, multiplication, 
and division. U. S. Currency. Fractions begun. Mental exercises. 

c. Divisions of land and watec, reviewed, and descriptive lessons of 
principal countries of tbe earth. Outline maps. 

d. Twice a week. 

e. Prang's Drawing Book, No. 4. 

SIXTH GRADE. 

a. Language, (oral and written). 
6. Arithmetic. 

c. History of the United States. 

d. Geography. 

e. Penmanship. 

f. Drawing. 

a. Articulation and Speech-reading. Sentence writing involving the 
various parts of speech and illustrative of the use of words and phrases. 
Participial constructions contin ued. Natural History. Narrative and des- 
criptive composition. Journal writing. Stories. 

6. Fractions continued, with practical problems. Weights and meas- 
ures begun. Mental exercises. 

c. Manuscript lessons, prepared by the teacher. 

d. Mitchell's Intermediate. 

e. Twice a week. 

f. Prang's Drawing Book, No. 6. 

seventh grade. 

a. Language, (oral and written). 

b. Arithmetic. 

c. History. 

d. Geography. 

e. Drawing. 

a. Articulation and Speech-reading. Sentence building. False syn- 
tax. Analysis, using diagrams. Participial and adverbial phrases. English 
composition. 

b. Denominate numbers completed, and fractions also. Practical 
problem's. Loss and gain. Making out accounts; drawing notes, checks, 
receipts, etc. 

c. American History completed. 

d. Mitchell's Interaiediate continued. 
«. Prang's, No. 6. 

eighth grade. 

a. Language, (oral and written). 

b. Arithmetic. . 

c. History. 

d. Physiology. 

e. Geography. 
/. Drawing. 



30 



a. Articulation and Speech-reading. Composition. Elementary 
grimmar and analysis. Thorough drill on connectives. Incorporation of 
new words and phrases. 

b. Interest and discount, with practical problems. Exercises in com- 
mercial forms, as notes, receipts, bills of account, etc., continued. 

c. English History. 

d. Elements of Physiology and Hygiene. 

e. Mitchell's Intermediate, completed. 
/. Prang's, No. 7. 

NINTH GRADE. 

a. Language, (oral and written). 

6. Abithmetic. 

c. History. 

d. Philosophy. 
«. Geography. 
/. Drawing. 

a. Articulation and Speech-reading. Composition. Swinton's Lan- 
guage. Kerl's English Grammar. 

b. Completed, including square root and cube root. 

c. Outline of General History. 

d. Well's Natural Philosophy, commenced. 
«. Mitchell's Physical. 

f. Prang's, No. 8. 

TENTH grade. 

a. Language, (oral and written). 
6. Arithmetic. 

c. History. 

d. Philosophy. 
«. Geography. 
/ Drawing. 

jr. Civil Government. 

o. Articulation and Speech-reading. Swinton's Language Lessons, 
Kerl's Grammar and Rhetoric. 

b. Reviewed. 

c. Berard's English and American reviewed. 

d. ^Veil's Natural Philosophy, completed. 

e. Mitchell's Physical. 
/. Prang's, No. 9. 

g. Alden's Citizen's Manual. 

The educational work of the school is not confined entirely to 
the class-rooms. Whatever is calculated to impart information 
and aid the mental development of the pupil is encouraged. The 
pupils, under proper supervision and direction, maintain senior 
and junior literary societies, which they manage themselves, and 



31 



the exercises of the weekly meetings of which consists of lectures, 
debates and various other features of a literary character. The 
influence of these societies has been most beneficial. Frequent 
lectures on instructive and interesting topics are given by the 
teachers. Each department has a large library for the use of the 
pupils, supplied with a variety of the best literature suited to their 
years and advancement. The reading matter is further supple- 
mented by the efforts of the pupils themselves, who have formed 
reading clubs and have subscribed for the best periodical litera- 
ture of the day. Social reunions of the pupils of the various 
departments are held occasionally, when they are given an oppor- 
tunity of mingling with the opposite sex. In every way an effort 




BENJAMIN D. PETTENGILL. 
Teacher, 1840-1884. 

is made to reduce the isolation inseparable from the loss of hear- 
ing and the monotony of institution life to a minimum. 

The industrial training afforded by the Institution constitutes an 
important part of its educational work. From the very establish- 
ment of the school instruction in various industries has been 
given. In the first report of the Institution (1823) it appears that 
provisions were made for teaching the pupils cabinet making, 
shoemaking, coopering and weaving. In subsequent years the 
trials and difficulties encountered rendered it impossible for the 
Institution to give this department of its work the attention that 
it deserved, but at no time was it entirely neglected. For the 
past ten years instruction in printing, tailoring, shoemaking, 
dress-making, shoe-fitting and knitting has been given, and the 

32 



female pupils have been giveu instruction in housework and cook- 
ing under the direction of the matrons. In the new industrial 
building, now nearly completed, in addition to the ample facili- 
ties afforded for tlie above industries, arrangements are made for 
the teaching of plumbing, blacksmithing, weaving, baking, plas- 
tering and bricklaying, and photography. In the estimation of 
the Board of Directors industrial training is of no less importance 
than intellectual training, and no effort will be spared to return 
the children entrusted to the care of the Institution not only intel- 
ligent but independent and self-supporting citizens. 

In connection with the classes in printing in the industrial 
department two papers are printed. The Silent World is pub- 
lished weekly, and is devoted to the dissemination, among the 
hearing, of information in regard to the deaf and their education, 
and to news items of interest to the deaf themselves. Its circula- 
tion is not confined to Pennsylvania, but extends to nearly every 
State in the Union. The Little World is published daily, during 
tlie school term, and is devoted to school items and other reading 
matter suited to the iotelligence of the various grades of pupils, 
and is, in general, intended as an auxiliary to the Avork of the 
school-room. It does not circulate outside of the Institution. 

Tlie artistic education of the children is not neglected, and for 
lialf a century instruction in drawing has been given. In the 
new industrial building ample provisions will be made for art 
education and every opportunity will be afforded children with 
artistic tastes to develop and cultivate the faculty. 

The domestic arrangements of the Institution are as complete as 
are those of instruction. The large liousehold is under the general 
supervision of a comjjetent steward. Each department l)uilding 
is under the care of a matron, wlio lias general charge of its 
domestic affairs. Male and female superviscn'S and attendants 
have charge of the children outside of the school-room, and the 
children are constantly under a supervision sufficient to prevent 
any harm, either physical or moral, while in no way interfering 
with their rights or native self-respect. A wliolesome and liberal 
diet is provided, and a well-appointed laundry sup23lies the pupil 
with two changes of linen a week. Comfortable clothing is pro- 
vided winter and summer, the boys wearing a neat uniform of 
cadet cloth, and the girls dresses to suit as far as possible their 
individual taste. In case of sickness the children are placed 
under the care of a well-trained nurse, and are afforded the very 
best medical attendance. The consulting staff of physicians 

c 33 



and surgeons of the Institution includes some of the most 
distinguished specialists in the city. The buildings are models as 
far as sanitation is concerned. In short, nothing that can conduce 
to the mental, moral or physical well-being of the pupils is neglected. 

The Institution, having a large number of children committed 
to its care who from their condition are wholly without moral or 
religious instruction, endeavors to inculcate, without any sectarian 
bias, those broad moral and religious principles upon which 
Christianity is based. No attempt at theological discussion or 
sectarian instruction is made, and no principles are inculcated 
which will in any way interfere with their joining upon graduation 
such church as their parents may prefer, but the endeavor is to 
give them an adequate conception of a Heavenly Father, of a 
Saviour, of the distinction between good and evil, and of their 




JOHN CARLIN. AI^BERT NEWSAM. 

duties to God, to one another, and to tlieniselves. For this pur- 
pose a Sunday -Scliool meets each Sunday afternoon, and on every 
Sunday morning and evening, lectures are given by teachers, cal- 
cuhited to reach their hearts and afiections, to point out the prin- 
ciples of right living here and to prepare them for the life to 
come. 

Throughout its long career the Institution has been particularly 
fortunate in possessing a Board of Directors which has been 
devoted to the interest of the school. These gentlemen, among 
whom are numbered some of the most distinguished citizens of 
I'liiladelphia, have given the Institution the most appreciative 
oversight and the most careful su))ervision. Thej' have exe- 
cuted the duties of tlieir ])osition not in a merely nominal and 
perfunctory manner, l)ut have taken an active .share in the 

34 



management of the Institution, have made the subject of deaf- 
mute education a personal study, and have been keenly alive to 
the needs of the Institution. The success of the Institution is as 
much owing to their disinterested efforts for its welfare as to any 
other single cause. Nor has their interest been confined to super- 
intendence. Some of the most liberal benefactors of the school 
have been members of the Board of Directors. The opening 
of the new buildings on October 8, 1892, was made doubly 
impressive by the announcement that one of the most active mem- 
bers of the board, John T. Morris, had made a free gift of $50,- 
000 towards the completion of the industrial building. 

The Pennsylvania Institution for the Deaf and Dumb is a cor- 
poration chartered under the laws of the State of Pennsylvania- 




MRS. MARY PAULUN, 
One of the original pupils of David G. Seixas, 
now living, aged 87. 

Although possessing some means of its own, thanks to the gifts 
and bequests of benevolent people, its main support is derived 
from the annual appropriation of the Legislature. It is hoped 
that with the enlarged capacity of the school this appropriation 
will be increased so as to permit the admission of a larger num- 
ber of pupils. The term of instruction is ten years, and appli- 
cants for' admission must be over seven years of age and under 
twenty-one, unless there be good reasons for earlier admission. 
The school is free to all deaf children of the State of suitable age 
and of good physical and intellectual condition. The school term is 
from the fifteenth ef September to the last Wednesday in June. 
All applications for information regarding admissions, etc., must be 
made to the principal. A payment of $30 gives a life member- 

35 



ship in the corporation, and the annual subscription is $5. The 
vakie of the buildings and grounds is fully |!l,000,000, and the 
annual expenditure for general support and ordinary repairs, etc., 
approximates $125,000. 

The results of the seventy-five years of the Institution's labors 
are best observed in its graduates. During this period 3000 
children have been under instruction, and the great majority of 
them have become intelligent, industrious and self-supporting 
citizens of the commonwealth, amply justifying the expenditure 
Avhich the State has made on their account. A number of them 
have graduated from the National Deaf Mute College at Wash- 
ington, and have taken high rank, both for scholarship and 
uprightness of character. Many of the graduates have become 
teachers of the deaf, and have lent theii- best efforts to the further- 
ance of the noble work to which they themselves are so deeply 
indebted. There has scarcely been a time in the Institution's his- 
tory when there have not been several graduates on its staft" of 
teachers. Among those who devoted long and useful lives to the 
service of the Institution may be named James C. Murtagh, 
Joseph O. Pyatt and Thomas Jefferson Trist. 

Aside from these, and from those who have found honorable and 
useful fields of activity in the varied industries of our great 
State, the Institution can point with pride to graduates who have 
taken a high position in tlie artistic and technical pursuits, to 
ministers of the gospel, teachers, clerks, merchants, etc., etc. 
Among its graduates may be named Albert Newsam, admitted to 
have been the most skilful lithographer of heads of his day; 
and John Carlin, a portrait and landscape painter of great merit. 
To have raised such a great number of human beings from a con- 
dition of utter mental darkness and helplessness into useful and 
intelligent citizens is much ; but to have enabled them to rise to 
positions of honorable distinction among their more fortunate 
fellow-beings is worthy of the highest praise and deepest admira- 
tion. 

Below is given a list of the officers, instructors and staft" on 
March 1, 1893 : 

President, EMLEN HUTCHINSON. 

Vice-Presidents, F. Mortimkr Lewis, George (iilpin, Rev. .Joseph A. 
Seiss, D. D., a. K. Montgomery. 

Secretary, John F. Lewis. 

Treasurer, Rowland Evans. 

36 



Directors. — Term expires in October, 1893. — F. Mortimer Lewis, Morton P. 
Henry, Samuel A. Crozer, Del. Co. ; Caleb J. Milne, George Gilpin, 
Robert R. Corson, Francis I. Gowen, Charles E. Dana, T. DeWitt 
Cuyler. 

Term expires in October, 1894- — T. Hewson Bache, M. D. ; John T. Morris, 
Rev. Joseph A. Seiss, D. D. ; Rev. W. N. McVickar, D. D. ; Henry D. 
Welsh, Orlando Crease, Nathaniel B. Crenshaw, Samuel Y. Heebner, 
Samuel F. Houston. 

Term expires in October, i<S.9J. — Emlen Hutchinson, A. R. Montgomery, 
Del. Co. ; Henry LaBarre Jayne, Edward Bettle, Jr. ; Stuart 
Wood, Eckley B. Coxe, Luzerne Co. ; David Pepper, Rev. J. Andrews 
Harris, D. D. ; Joseph H. Burroughs. 

Ladies' Committee. — Mrs. Frederic Collins, Chairman ; Mrs. Henry C. Lea, 
Treasurer; Mrs Edward R. Wood, Secretary ; Miss Eleanor C. Patter- 
son, Mrs. James Lesley, Miss Lydia T. Morris, Mrs. John H. Brinton, 
Miss Annie Bradford, Mrs. H. H. Houston, Mrs. E. W. Clarke, Mrs. 
J. B. Wattson, Miss Caroline Tyler Brown, Miss Mary E. Weld. 



Physician. — Russell H. JohNson, M. D. 
Consulting Physicians and Surgeo7is. — J. M. Da Costa, M. D., D. Murray 
Cheston, M. D., William Hunt, M. D., Thomas G. Morton, M. D., H. R. 
Wharton, M. D. 

Ophthalmic Surgeons. — William Thomson, M. D., Geo. C. Harlan, M. D. 
Charles S. Turnbull, M. D. 

Aural Surgeons. — Charles H. Burnett, M. D., B. Alexander Randall, M.D. 
Laryngologists . — Harrison Allen, M. D., Arthur Ames Bliss, M. D. 
Dentist.— W\\i\xax Diehl, D. D. S. 

Principal, A. L. E. Crouter, M.A. 

ADVANCED DEPARTMENT. 

Teachers — Thomas Burnside, John P. Walker, M.A., George L. Weed, M.A., 
S. G. Davidson, B. A., Mrs. Annie B. Wall, Mary E. Smith, Fannie Wood, 
Mary L. Divine. 

PRIMARY DEPARTMENT. 
Chief Instructor.— Y. W. Booth, B. S. 
Teachers. — Mrs. Sophia Trist, Julia A. Foley, Kate E. Barry, Kate S. Landis, 
Elizabeth R. Taylor, Mrs. F. W. Booth, Estelle V. Sutton, Louisa Young, 
Eva I. Gustin, Jerome T. Elwell, B.A. 

ORAL DEPARTMENT. 

Chief Instructor. — Florence C. McDowell. 
Teachers. — Susan E. BHss, Emma Florence West, Mary B. Shaw, Mattie H. 
Bedford, Maud L Griffeth, Emma Ross Thompson, Emma L. Plympton, 
Constance S. Newton, Florence B. Dwier, Ella S. Dawson, Fannie Lucas, 
Anna Jameson, Olive E. D. Hart, Mrs. E. G. Hurd, Edwin G. Hurd, M. 
A., Jacob D. Kirkhuff, M. A. 



37 



Teacher of Drawing. — Sophy W. Paddock. 
A. H. Bodenhorn, Steward. J. H. Webster, Clerk. 



ADVANCED DEPARTMENT. 

Matron — Sarah R. Briggs. Supervisor of Boys — Robert M. Ziegler. Super- 
visor of Girls — Eva A. Olver. Nurse — Katie Koon. 

PRIMARY DEPARTMENT. 

Matron — Anna M. Nathans. Supervisor of Boys — E. A. Gruver. Assist- 
ant Supervisor of Boys — Emma Weltmer. Supervisor of Girls — Mary 
Loughridge. Nurse — Susie Miller. 

ORAL DEPARTMENT. 

Matron — Electa M. Peters. Supervisor of Boys — Charles E. Fister. Super- 
visor of Girls — Carrie M. Hess. Nurse — Lizzie Teufel. 

Chief Engineer — William S. Blair. First Assistant — George Green. Second 
Assistant — L. C. McLary. 



INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT. 

Editor Silent World, and Instructor in Printing — H. Van Allen. 
Foreman of the Printing Office — Henry D. Hodgson. 
Foreman of the Shoe Shop — Joel C. Openshaw. 
Foreman of the Tailor Shop — Frank W. Weltmer. 
Foreman of the Carpenter Shop — Henry C. Forney. 
Foreman of the Bakery — William F. Drusedum. 
Foreman of Knitting and Shoe-Fitting — Eliza Loughridge. 
Dressmaking — Annie McClellan and Etta Kieffer. 



APPENDIX. 



List of Presidents, Vice-Presidents, and other Officers 
of the Institution, 1820-1893. 



Note.— As reports of the Institution were issued at irreg:ular intervals between 1820 and 
1840, the dates of service before 1840 are in most instances merely approximations, being the 
years in which the names appear and disappear in the published reports. There are some 
discrepancies in later reports, also, but tlie list may be regarded as fairly accurate and as 
complete as the data at hand will admit. 



PRESIDENTS. 



Rt. Rev. William White, 1820-36. 
Rev. Philip F. Mayer, D.D., 1836-59. 
Franklin Bache, M. D., 1859-63. 



George Sharswood, LT..D., 1863-S4. 
F. Mortimer Lewis, 1884-90. 
Emlen Hutchinson, 1890 



VICE-PRESIDENTS. 



Robert Patterson, 1820-21. 
Horace Binney, 1820-40. 
Roberts Vaux, 1820-40. 
N. Chapman, M. D., 1820-54. 
Gen. Thomas Cadwalader, 1821-40. 
Alexander Henry, 1840-48. 
Clement C. Biddle, 1840-56. 
John Vaughan, 1840-42. 
Samuel R. Wood, 1842-58. 
Robert M. Lewis, 1848-56. 
Franklin Bache, M. D., 1852-59. 
Joseph R. Ingersoll, 1856-59. 
Joseph G. Nancrede, 1856-58. 
Henry J. Williams, 1858-80. 
George G. Leiper, 1858-69. 
William M. Meredith, 1859-74. 
John N. Conyngham, 1859-72. 



Mordecai L. Dawson, 1869-73. 

John Farnum, 1872-73. 

Rev. Henry A. Boardman, D. D., 

1873-81. 
George W. Woodward, 1873-76. 
WiUiam Welsh, 1874-79. 
F. Mortimer Lewis, 1876-84. 
George A. Wood, 1879-84. 
Charles Willing, M. D., 1880-87. 
T. Hewson Bache, M. D., 1881-90. 
Joseph Patterson, 1884-87. 
Emlen Hutchinson, 1884 90. 

George Gilpin, 1887 

Rev. Joseph A. Seiss, D. D., 1887 

F. Mortimer Lewis, 1890 

A. R. Montgomery, 1890 



SECRETARIES. 

Henry J. Williams, 1820-jo. . James J. Barclay, 1840-S5. 
Edward Bettle, 1830-33. Rowland Evans, 1885-89. 
Robert Hare, 1833-40. John F. Lewis, 1889 

TREASURERS. 

John Bacon, 1820-60. S. Weir Lewis, 1869-89. 
F. Mortimer Lewis, 1860-69. Rowland Evans, 1889 



39 



DIRECTORS. 



Rt. Rev. William White, 1820-38. 
Robert Patterson, 1820-21. 
Horace Binney, 1820-40. 
Roberts Vaux, 1820-40. 
Dr. N. Chapman, 1820-54. 
Heniy J. Williams, 1820-30. 
John Bacon, 1820-60. 
William Meredith, 1820-25. 
John Vaughan, 1820-40. 
Clement C. Biddle, 1820-56. 
Jacob Gratz, 1820-22, and 1840-57. 
J. N. Barker, 1820-25. 
Gen. T. Cadwalader, 1820-40. 
William J. Duane, 1820-22. 
Samuel Archer, 1820-30. 
Paul Beck, 1820-44. 
P. Walsh, 1820-22. 
Alexander Henry, 1820-48. 
Rev. Philip F. Mayer, 1820-59. 
Dr. William Price, 1820-22. 
Calender Irwin, 1820-22. 
Reuben Haines, 1820-30. 
Dr. Franklin Bache, 1820-63. 
Samuel B. Morris, 1820-40. 
W. W. Fisher, 1820-22. 
Benjamin Tilghman, 1820-30. 
Caleb Cresson, 1820-22. 
William Mcllvaine, 1820-25. 
Joseph Gratz, 1820-22. 
Samuel Canby, Jr., 1820-22. 
Samuel R. Wood, 1820-58. 
John C. Montgomery, 1822-25. 
George M. Dallas, 1822-40. 
Robert M. Lewis, 1822-56. 
Joseph R. Ingersoll, 1822-59. 
Charles N. Backer, 1822-30. 
Samuel Hazelhurst, 1822-46. 
John Keating, Jr., 1822-25. 
Joseph P. Norris, Jr., 1822-30. 
John Wurts, 1825-33. 
Joseph G. Nancrede, M. D., 1825-58. 
George G. Leiper, 1825-69. 
John Naglee, 1825-46. 
Silas E. Weir, 1825-30. 
William li. Keating, 1825-30. 
Thomas Astley, 1830-40. 
William Boyd, 1830-41. 
Lawrence Lewis, 1830-56. 
Abraham Miller, 1830-59. 
George W. 'Poland, 1 830-5 8. 
William M. Meredith, 1830-74. 
Benjamin W. Richards, 1830-52. 
Edward Bettle, 1830-33. 
Henry J. Williams, 1830-80. 
William H. Keating, 1833-41. 
Robert Hare, 1833-44. 
James J. Barclay, 1840-85. 
[ames Taylor, 1S40-44. 
Thomas Bradford, 1840-46. 



Edward Yarnall, 1840-60. 
Thomas H. White, 1840-60. 
Benjamin H. Yarnall, 1840-44. 
Rev. Geo. W. Bethune, D.D.,1841 50. 
Rev. Wm. H. Odenheimer, 1841-44. 
Mordecai L. Dawson, 1842-73. 
J. Randolph, M. D., 1844-49. 
John Farnum, 1844-73. 
Thomas F. Wharton, 1844-65. 
John Cadwalader, 1844-58. 
Edward Coles, 1844-60. 
Thomas P. Cope, 1846-55. 
Alexander Symington, 1846-53. . 
William Shippen, M. D., 1846-65. 
WiUiam H. Dillingham, 1848-55. 
Henry D. Gilpin, 1849-58. 
Rt. Rev. Alonzo Potter, D. D., 

1850 65. 
George Sharswood, 1852.84. 
John N. Conyngham, 1853-72. 
John S. Bowen, 1854-56. 
Clement B. Barclay, 1855-67. 
Henry A. Boardman, D. D., 1855-81. 
George W. Biddle, 1856-59. 
George W. Woodward, 1856-76. 
Wilham Welsh, 1856 79. 
William Neal, 1856-76. 
William Wilkins, 1857-65. 
James N. Dickson, 1858-62. 
William Martin, 1 858 62. 
F. Mortimer Lewis, 1858- — 
P. P. Morris, 1858-62. 
Rev. W. T. Brantley, D. D., 1858-63. 
James Pollock, 1859-78. 
William Bigler, 1859-80. 
Rt. Rev. Samuel Bowman, D. D., 

1859-62. 
Edmund C. Evans, 1859-78. 
George A. Wood, 1860-84. 
Abraham A. Perkins, 1860-78. 
jeremiah Hacker, 1860-67. 
Ellis Yarnall, 1800-63. 
Charles Willing, M. D., 1862-87. 
John Ashhurst, 1862-78. 
Henry Helmuth, 1862-65. 
Heister Clymer, 1862-71. 
Charles H. Hutchinson, 1863-76. 

Morton P. Henry, 1863 

Atherton Blight, 1863-76; 1878-81, 
T. Hewson Bache, M. D., 1865 — 
John P. Crozer, 1865-67. 
Edward C. Biddle, 1865-79. 
[. Craig Miller, 1865-67. 
Charles Wheeler,Ji865-84. 
J. L Clarke Hare, 1867-78. 
Alexander Fullerton, 1867-68. 

.Samuel A. Crozer, 1S67 

Joseph Patterson. 1868-87. 
S. Weir Lewis, 1868-89. 



40 



A. M. Collins, 1869-79. 

"Wm. G. Thomas, 1871-75; 1879-90. 

Isaac Hazelhurst, 1872-91. 

Daniel M. Fox, 1873 90. 

John J. Pearson, 1873-81. 

Stephen H. Brooke, 1874-86. 

Caleb J. Milne, 1875 

Emlen Hutchinson, 1876 

Samuel Bradford, 1876-86. 

Charles C. Harrison, 1876-85. 

William L. Rhen, 1876-77. 

I. Minis Hays, M. D., 1877-79. 

"William A. Porter, 1878-83. 

William H. Ashhurst, 1 878-81. 

H. Lennox Hodge, M. D., 1878-82. 

Rowland Evans, 1878-88. 

Charles S. Lewis, 1879-91. 

William Rudder, D. D., 1879-81. 

A. Sydney Biddle, 1880-91. 

William Calder, 1 880-8 1. 

John T. Morris, 1880- — 

Rev. Thos. F. Davies, D.D., 1881-86. 

Rev. Joseph A. Seiss, D. D., 1881 

Craig Biddle, 1881-89. 
Rev. William Neilson McVickar, 
D. D., 1881- — 



Joseph M. Wilson, 1881-90. 

George Gilpin, 1882 

A. R. Montgomery, 1882 

Rev. Wm. P. Breed, D. D., 1883- - 

Henry La Barre Jayne, 1884 

Edward Beltle, Jr., 1884 

Stuart Wood, 1884 

Thomas Stewardson, 1885-87. 
Horace Jayne, M. D., 1885-86. 

Eckley B. Coxe, 1886 

Thomas Hockley. 1887-92. 

David Pepper, 1887 

Frederick GrafT, 1887-90. 

Robert R. Corson, 1887 

Rev. J. Andrews Harris, D. D., 

1889- — 
Henry D. Welsh, 1890- — 

Orlando Crease, 1890 

N. B. Crenshaw, 1890 

Francis I. Gowen, 1890 

Charles E. Dana, 1890 

Samuel Y. Heebner, 1891 

Samuel F. Houston, 189 1- — 

T. DeWitt Cuyler, 1 89 1 

Joseph H. Burroughs, 1892 



LADIES' COMMITTEE. 



Mrs. B. Hallowell, 1820-44. 
Mrs. McPherson, 1820-30. 
Mrs. James, 1820-22. 
Miss E. W. Wistar, 1820-30. 
Miss R. Gratz, 1820-30 
Mrs. Hartshorne, 1820-22. 
Mrs. B. Sansom, 1820-30. 
Mrs. Astley, 1820-22. 
Miss M. E. Morris, 1820-22. 
Miss Cohen, 1820-22. 
Mrs. Meredith, 1820-22. 
Miss M.Smith, 1820-22. 
Mrs. H. Barton, 1822-30. 
Mrs. T. Latimer, 1822-40. 
Mrs. J. C. Jones, 1822-54. 
Mrs. W. H. Todd, 1822-30. 
Mrs. H. Palesk6, 1822-59. 
Mrs. Hazelhurst, 1822-42. 
Mrs. Goodard, 1822-30. 
Mrs. R. Harrison, 1822-30. 
Mrs. H. Henry, 1830-62. 
Mrs. A. Morris, 1830-59. 
Miss M. Latimer, 1830-66. 
Miss H. Parke, 1 830-6 1. 
Mrs. S. B. Brown, 1830-54. 
Miss J. Johnson, 1830-40. 
Miss E. Smith, 1830-40. 
Mrs. M. Lewis, 1840-41. 
Mrs. George B. Wood, 1840 68. 
Miss S. Wistar, 1840-60. 
Mrs. M. L. Dawson, 1841-76. 



Mrs. R. M. Lewis, 1842-60. 

Mrs. E. H. Farnum, 1844 63. 

Miss M. M. Duane, 1854-87. Hon 

orary, 1887-89. 
Miss E. PhiUips, 1854-61. 
Miss A. B. Shaw, 1859-77. Hon 

orary, 1887-89. 
Miss H. M. Davis, 1859-61. 
Mrs. George W. Woodward, 1860-62 
Mrs. Samuel Welsh, 1860 76. 
Mrs. Richard D. Wood, 1861-86. 
Mrs. F. M. Lewis, 1861-73. 
Miss Mary E. Penrose, 1861-79. 
Mrs. Charles F. Randolph, 1862-69. 
Mrs. Edward Yarnall, 1862-82. 
Miss M. N. Logan, 1863-87. 
Mrs. John R. Latimer, 1866-70. 
Mrs. Henry Reed, 1868-85. 
Mrs. J. Edgar Thompson, 1869-76. 
Mrs. David Scull, 1870-71. 
Mrs. M. B. Grier, 1871-79. 
Miss Annie Biddle, 1873-75. 
Mrs. S. Weir Lewis, 1876-91. 
Mrs. George A. Wood, 1876-77. 

Miss E. C. Patterson, 1876 

Miss Mary Wells, 1876-81. 

Mrs. Frederic Collins, 1877 

Mrs. James Lesley, 1877 — 
Miss Mary J. Boardman, 1879-89. 

Mrs. Henry C. Lea, 1879 

Mrs. E. W. Hutter, 1881-85. 



d 



41 



Mrs. Eben Barker, 1883-84. 
Mrs. T. Wistar Brown, 1884-91. 
Mrs. Evan Randolph, 1885-86. 
Mrs. N. H. Trotter, 1885-86. 
Mrs. Edward R. Wood, 1886- — 
Mrs. Henry T. Ashhurst, 1886 92. 

Miss Lydia T. Morris, 1886 

Miss Mary McMurtrie, 1886-88. 
Mrs. George Bartol, 1886 87. 



Mrs. John H. Brinton, 1887 

Miss Annie Bradford, 1888 

Mrs. Francis I. Gowen, 1890-92. 

Mrs. H. H. Houston, 1891 

Mrs. E. W. Clark, 1891- — 

Mrs. J. B. Wattson, 1892 

Miss Caroline Tyler Brown, 1892- — 
Miss Mary E. Weld, 1893 



David G. Seixas, 1820-21. 
Laurent Clerc, 1821-22. 
Lewis Weld, 1822-30. 



PRINCIPALS. 

Abraham B. Hutton, 1830-70. 
Joshua Foster, 1870 84. 
A. L. E. Crouter, 1884 



TEACHERS. 



Charles B. Dillingham, 1821-24. 
Abagail Dillingham, 1821-24. 
Abraham B. Hutton, 1822-30. 
Eleazar Holt, 1824-30. 
Samuel R. Houston, 1825-33. 
George Comstock, 1824-30. 
Henry Aurand, 1830-33. 
George S. Whitehill, 1830-33. 
Benjamin M. Nyce, 1830-39. 
Robert Evans, 1830-33. 
John W. Faires, 1833-39. 
James C. Sharon, 1832-39. 
Robert T. Evans, 1833-70. 
James C. Murtagh, 1833-47. 
Benjamin B. McKinley, 1840-75. 
Joshua Foster, 1838-70. 
Benjamin D. Pettengill, 1840-84. 
Joseph O. Pyatt, 1840-78. 
William McKinley, 1847-52. 
Joseph Mount, 1848-63. 
Jonathan L. Noyes, 1852-58. 
Lewellyn Pratt, 1852-55, 1857-65. 
T. Jefferson Trist, 1855-90. 
Harvey W. Milligan, 1856-65 
James L. Clark, 1858-63. 
Thomas Burnside, i860 — - 
James F. Stone, 1862-65. 
Amasa Pratt, 1865-66. 
Arthur H. Whitmore, 1865-66. 

Jacob D. Kirkhuff, 1866 

Henry S. Pratt, 1866-67. 
A. L. E. Crouter, 1867-84. 
Mrs. S. K. Trist, i860- — 
M. L. Brock, 1870-75. 
John P. Walker, 1870- — 
Rebecca H. Cropper, 1870-88. 
A. L. Pettengill, 1871-80. 
Laura Nelson, 1872-85. 
George L. Weed, 1875- — 
William C. Turner, 1875-77. 
Henry S, Hitchcock, 1875-86. 



Ann P. Coulter, 1875-88. 
Mary E. Ziegler, 1875-83. 
James M. Pratt, 1876-81. 
Edward B. Crane, 1876-78. 
Lydia Edgar, 1876-85. 
A. N. Pratt, 1877-78. 
John H. Pettengill, 1878-85. 
William G. Jenkins, 1878,85. 
Emma Garrett, 1878-84. 
Jerome T. Elwell, 1880 — 
Anna F. Snider, 1881-85. 
Mary Garrett, 1881-86. 
Evelyn M. C. Harvey, 1881-84. 

Julia A. Foley, 1 882 

Florence C. McDowell, 1882 

Ella A McDowell, 1882 87. 

Susan E. Bliss, 1882 

Sarah D. McClain, 1882 85. 
Kate E. Barry, 1883- — 
F. W. Booth, 1883- — 
S. T. Walker, 1883-84. 

Fanny Wood, 1883 

Sydney C. Morrison, 1883-85. 
Emma F. West, 1883- — 

Mary B. Shaw, 1883 

Edwin G. Hurd, 1884- — 
Mrs. A. B. Wall, 1884- — 
Margaret E. Hallowell, 1884-88. 
Emma J. Ely, 1884-87. 

Mattie H. Bedford, 1884 

Mary C. Passmore, 1884-90. 
Laura De L. Richards, 1884-89. 
Mary E. Smith, 1885- — 
Mrs. A. C. Hurd, 1885- — 

Kate S. Landis, 1885 

Kate W. Baldwin, 1885-87. 

Elizabeth R. Taylor, 1885 

Maude I. Griffeth, 1885- — 
Lydia M. Cooke, 1885-88. 
William A. Caldwell, 1885-90. 
Emma R. Thompson, 1885 



42 



Sophy W. Paddock, 1886- — 
Kate I. May, 1887-89. 

Emma L. Plympton, 1887 

Lucy D. Baldwin, 1887-89. 
Mary L. Divine, 1888- — 
Frances F. Barry, 1888-90. 
Phebe J. Wright, 1888-92. 
Anna B. Carter, 1888-90. 

Constance S. Newton, 1888 

Emma Lewis, 1889-92. 
Effie Johnston, 1889 92. 
Florence B. Dwier, 1889 



Samuel G. Davidson, 1890- 

Marion E. Booth, 1890 

Estella V. Sutton, 1890 

Cora Johnston, 1890-92. 

Ella S. Dawson, 1890 

Marie O'Cole, 1891-92. 
Louisa Young, 1892- — 

Eva I. Gustin, 1892 

Fannie Lucas, 1892 

Anna Jameson, 1892 

Olive iE. D. Hart, 1892 



43 



A SHORT HISTORY 



OFTHE 



KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF, 



By CHABL.es P. FOSDICK, a former pupil. 



Printed by 

M. B. Reed, 
Robert Zahn, 
L. A. Long, 

Thomas Y. Northebn, 

Pupils of the School. 



Office of 
The Kentucky Deaf-Mute, 
Danville, Ky, 



WITH APPENDIX. 




* 



OFFICEJ^S of THH IJSiSTITUTIOrl. 



BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. 

J. W. Proctor, JBoyle county. 

S. V. Rowland, Boyle county. 
Jos. H. Thomas, Boyle county. 

Rev. Jas. L. Allen, Boyle county. 
W. L. Caldwell, Boyle county. 

S. II. Shanks, Lincoln county. 
M. D. Logan, Boyle county. 

Geo. F. Lee, Boyle county. 
J. W. Powell, Mercer county. 

Boyle 0. Rodes, Boyle county. 
Samuel A. Newell, Pulaski county. 

L. II. Hudson, Garrard county. 

OFFICERS OF THE BOARD. 
J. W. Proctor, President, Danville, Ky. 

W. L. Caldwell, Vice-Pres., Danville, Ivy. 
J, L. Allen, Auditor, Danville, Ky. 

S. V. Rowland, Secretary, Danville, Ky. 
J. H. Thomas, Treasurer, Danville, Ky. 

Advisory Committee . 
J. W. Proctor. J. H. Thomas. 

Boyle O. Rodes. 

Library Committee. 

J. W. Proctor, Rev. J. L. Allen. 

W. K. Argo. 



EDUCATIONAL DEPARTMENT. 

PRINCIPAL: 

W. K. Argo, M. A. 
TEA CHERS: 

Kev. L. Eddy, M. A. G. M. McClure, 

Augustus Rogers, B. A. G. T. Sclioolfield, 

Mrs. Augustus Rogers, John H. Yeager, 

Miss Martha Stephens, Miss Sallie Ellis, 

Miss jSTellie Lyle, 
ARTICULATION, AURAL, AND ORAL CLASSES. 
Miss Stella P. Yost, Miss Jennie Lee, 

Miss Pattie Gentry. 

DOMESTIC DEPARTMENT. 
W. K. Argo, M. A. Superintendent. 

Miss Anna Bowman, Matron. 
Miss Ruth DePeauw, Supervisor of girls. 

Frank Christman, Supervisor of boys. 
Miss M. E. Moss, Housekeeper. 

Walter Simpson, Engineer. — 
Geo. Cowan, M. D. Physician. . 

INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT. 

G. M. McClure, Instructor in Printing. 

J. W. CoUings, Instructor in Carpentr3^ 
A. J. Veatch, Instructor in Slioemaking. 

John Christman, Gardener. 
Miss Cliloe Cowan, Teacher Sewing Classes. 

COLORED DEPARTMENT. 

TEACHERS: 

•M.T.Long, W.J. Blount, 

Miss Mabel Marris. 
Mrs. M. T. Long, Matron. 



Rise at 5:30 a.m. Recreation 4:30 to 5:45p.m. 

Breakfast 6:45 a.m. Supper 6:00 p.m. 

Chapel 8:00 a.m. Study (all) 7:00to 8:00 p.m. 

School..8:10 to 12:45 p.m. Study (olderpupils) 9:00 p.m. 

Dinner 1:00 p.m. Little folks retire ..8:00 p.m. 

Work 2:00 to 4:30: p.m. All retire 9:00 p.m. 

Sunday: 

Rise 6:00 a.m. 

Breakfast 7:30 a.m. 

Chapel 10:00 a.m. 

Study S. S. Lessons 
from 11:00 to 12:00 m. 





1:00 p, 


,M. 


Sunday School,.. 


3:00 p, 


,M. 




6:00 p, 


.M. 


Christian End'vor6:30 p, 


,M. 


All retire b}' 


8:30 P. 


M. 



k SHORT HISTORY 



OF THE 



KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



|,N tlie ninth of August, 1816, there landed from a 



-<!3!^vessel just arrived in New York harbor, two gen- 
tlemen whose coming was destined to open for the deaf 
and dumb of America a new and brighter era. One of 
those gentlemen could hear; the other was a deaf-mute. 
The first was Thomas 11. Gallaudet; the second Laurent 



The story of how Gallaudet was first interested in the 
deaf and their education by his meeting, in her father's 
garden, with Alice Cogswell; of his departure for Eng- 
land and of the rebuffs he received at the English Insti- 
tutions while endeavoring to obtain admission to them to 
study their methods of instruction; of his arrival at 
Paris and the cordial reception he met there from the 
Abbe Sicard; and finally his engaging Sicard's best pupil, 
Laurent Clerc, to accompany him to America and assist 
liim in his work, lias been so often told that we need not 
repeat it here in detail. 

April 15th, 1817, the first school for deaf-mutes in the 
new world, the American Asylum, at Hartford, Conn.^ 
was opened for the reception of pupils. The number of 
deaf-mutes in the country was considered so small that it 
was expected one school would be sufficient for the whole 
countrjr, hence the name of "American Asylum." But 
it Avas soon found that deaf-mutes were more numerous 
than had l)een supposed, ajid m 1818 the New York 




Clerc. 



A SHORT HISTORX OF 



Instuntion was iiicorpoFated. Two years later the 
Pennsylvania Institntion, at Philadelphia, was founded^ 
and in 1822 the Kentucky Institution, at Danyille^ 
fourth in- the United States, was established. 

The aet incoi-porating the "Ke»tucky Asylnm for 
the Tuition of the Deaf and Dumh"hears date Deeemher 
7th,1822 To whom belo-ngs the honor of iirst suggesting; 
the establishment in Kentucky of such an Institution is- 
unknowD birt tbe act of incorporation was tirst drawi> 
up by Judge Rowan and presented to the Legislature- 
by General Elias Barbee, a member of the House of 
Representatives from Green eoiinty,ancT whose daughter., 
Lucy, becan:ie the tirst pupil. Thii- act appoints the 
•'Trustees of the Centre College of KentucFvy,"' Trustees 
for the Institution, locates the Institution in the town of 
Danville, appropriates f3,000 to establish the school and 
$100 a year per pupil for board and tuition of State 
pupils whose number was limited to twenty-live and 
the time tliey were to be allowed to remain at school tc 
three years. 

Early in Jariuary, 1823, the trasteesmet and proceeded 
to set the Institution in operation. A frame building 
6n the south-west corner of Main and Fourth streets' 
was rented and titted up for the reception of pupils- 
(This building slood until April 15th, 1876, when it Ava? 
destroyed wath several others in the great tire of that 
night.) Janoary 23rd, the Board engaged Rev. Joho 
R. Kerr and wife as Superintendent and Matron of the 
boarding de|>artment. By the system then inaugurated., 
and which prevailed until 1854, the boarding of the 
pupils was not done by the Institution but by the su- 
perintendent. He purchased all necessary supplies; the 
amount paid by the State for board of indigent pupik' 
and the sums re(H!ived from ]>ay pupils went to him 
and any })rotit that might be made from tlie arrange- 
ment was the sup( rintendent's emoluments, ho receiving 
no salary. 



THE IJENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



The most perplexing question that engaged the atten- 
t-ion of the Trustees at tliie; period was how to obtain a 
rprineipal for this schooL The few in the country who 
were accpiaiifted with signs and the metliods of instruct- 
ing the deaf and dumb w^ere all engaged in eastern 
Institutions, and none of them could be obtained. Dr. 
Gallaudet had advised seleoting a young man and send- 
ing him to Hartford to learn the system of teaching but 
this w^ould take time and the Board were anxious to 
begin at once the work of instructing the deaf of 
Kentucky. At tli is juncture they were called upon by 
David C. Irvine who represented himself as an educated 
deaf-mute and applied for the position of Principal. He 
was accepted, but in a few weeks was discovered to be 
an impostor, and to quote from the first report "Circum- 
stances occurred which made it the duty of the Board 
to discharge iiim." 

April 27th, 1823, the first three pupils Lucy, Barbee, 
Eveline Sherrill, and Jabez Gaddie entered the Institu- 
tion. There being no teacher yet engaged Mr. Iverr 
'=the Superintendent, was obliged to act in that capacity 
tliougli totally unacquainted with the system. May Ist, 
an a])plication for the principa^ship was received from 
Mr. DeWitt Clinton Mitchell, son of the president of 
thel^ew York Institution. Mr. Mitchell was a young man 
who htidhad but one year's experience in the New York 
School but in defaidt of any other the Board accepted 
him with a sahxry of five hundred dollars and board, 
with travelling expenses to Danville, and he came on 
direct to Danville, arriving here October 1st, 1823. 

Pupils had been dropping in at intervals during the 
year and by February, 1824, there were twelve boys and 
seven girls, ten of whom were su))porled at the ex[)ense 
oi the State, the rest being pay pupils. A few months 
trail convinced the Board that Mitchell was not (pialitied 
for the responsible position he held and they began to 
cast about for a substitute. There was at that time 



4 



A SiroM HISTORY OF 



attending Centre College a young man ot eighteen, Jofifis 
Adamson Jacobs, and npon Inni their choice was iixed. 
He Avas offered the position of assistant teacher and 
accepted^ A few weeks's experience in the school-room? 
convinced him tliat to he a successful teacher it was im- 
perative that he slionld learn signs and the systems of 
instruction employed in the Eastern Institutions. With 
this olyeet he set ovit for Hartford making the trip 
entirely an horseback and arriving there August 
15th, 1824, He met with a cordial reception from 
Gallaudet and Clerc and had no diliiculty in arranging 
to remain in the Institution to learn the system thei> 
employed. On his arrival Dr. Gallaudet had assured 
him that it would require at last three years for him to 
acquire the requisite knowledge of signs and systems 
to lit him for taking charge of the Kentucky scliool. 
The small funds at the command of the Institution 
made it out of the question for him to remain that 
length of time, so he determined to do the Ijest he could 
in the time alloted to him. He received private lessons 
from Mr. Clerc at forty cents an hour, and all his time 
was passed in the school-room or in the company of the 
pupils. His meals were taken with the mutes whose 
fare he says in a communication to the Board "While 
substantial was by no nteans luxurious." He remained 
in Hartford thirteen months, returning to Danville in 
September, 1825, riding the same horse that had carried 
him East. 

Mr. Jaco])S on his return to the Institution found it 
in a demoralized condition, tlie jmpils making no pro- 
gress at all. He set about the task of instructing thena 
with great zeal. The Board saw his worth, and in 
November, 1825, appointed him principal teacher. Mr. 
Mitchell, in liigh dudgeon at their action, tendered his 
resignation which was prcnnptly accepted and he re- 
turned to New York. 

On January 4th, 1824, tlie Legislature had increased 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



5 



the per capita for State pupils to one hundred and forty 
dollars per annum, and had authorized the admission of 
pay pupils from other States. They also ajjpropriated 
three thousand dollars for the purchase of a house and 
land for the Institution. 

January 28th, 1826, the Board purchased of John 
Tompkins, a house and len-acre lot for $5,000, three 
thousand of which was paid at once, and the rest in six 
months. The house was a hrick one of two stories, con- 
taining eight rooms with attic. To this house the offi- 
cers and female pupils were removed. The hoys occupi- 
ed a one-story brick house that stood on Third street, 
near the old shop and which has long since been re- 
moved. 

April 26th, 1826, the Congress of the United States 
granted the Institution a township of land. This the 
Board located in Jackson county, Florida. Large sales 
were made and the Institution realized handsomely 
from it, though not as much as might have been obtain- 
ed by better management on the part ot the agents 
instructed with making sales. 

In 1831, Mr. Jacobs, accompanied by one of his pu- 
pils, visited IsTashville, Tennessee, and gave an exhibi- 
tion and address before the Legislature. The result ot 
his visit was the sending of a number of Tennessee pupils 
to Danville for education. Pupils have been received 
from every Southern State, and several Northern ones. 
As showing the uncertain knowledge ])OSsessed by even 
those best informed in regard to the number of deaf- 
mutes in the State and the future increase of popula- 
tion, we find Mr. Jacobs sending a communication to 
the Board of Trustees, May, 1831, in which he expresses 
the opinion that the number of pupils present at any 
time will never exceed twenty five, and there M'ill never 
be a necessity for more than two teachers. In 1833, 
when cliolera w^as epidemic throughout the country, the 
Superintendent ami Matron, Kev. and Mrs. John K. 



6' 



A SHORT HISTORY OF 



iverr were stricken down, (-lying witliin a few days of 
each other. Again, in 1849 the cholera appeared, and 
twenty-tour persons died of it near the Institntion. The 
school was closed, and pupils placed with farmers in the 
country. Fifteen were taken sick, but only one death 
occurred 

In 1851, the Itistitution subscribed ten dol- 
lars to the Washington Monument Fund. 

In February, 1859, between four and five o'clock in 
the morning, a hurricane passed over the town, and 
carried .away the roof of the lately completed girl's 
building. It was replaced at a cost of $700, during 
which operation it caught fire from the carelessness of a 
tinner, and was damaged to the extent of |300. This 
is the onl\' fire of consequence that has occurred in the 
])uildings of the Institution since its establishment. 

Under the able administration of Mr. Jacobs the 
Institntion continued to prosper. The number of pupils 
steadily increased, and additions were made to the corps 
ot teachers as necessar}'. At the end of the session of 
1860-61, there were ninety two pupils and six teachers 
present. 1861 saw the beginning of the great Civil 
War, Avhich, for a time, threatened to seriously cripple, 
if it Oil] not close up the school. As it was, the work 
of tlie school was not interrupted at all, though this 
part of Kentiick}' was debated ground held for some 
time by Confederate troops, and occasionally visited l)y 
wandering bands of guerrillas, a fight at one time taking 
place in the streets of che town. The number of pupils 
tell to fifty two, and three of the teachers — ^lessrs. C. II. 
Talbot, J. W. Jacol)s, and J. A. Jacobs, Jr., retired and 
entered the army, all on the l^nion side. 

ISToveiiiber 17th, 1869, the veiieral)le Principal of the 
Institntion died after having lield the ofiice f )r forty- 
four years, and seen the Institution gro\v from a little 
school with a d(tzcn pupils up to the proportions it had 
attained at the time of his death. Seven members 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



7 



of Mr. Jacobs's family held pOv^itioiis in the Institution 
4nrino' his administration; his two wives and ii daught- 
er were matrons in succession; anotlier danuliter, a son, 
a son-in-law, and a nephew^ were teachers whose qualili- 
cations and devotion to the work proved a benefaction 
to tbe Institution. 

After the close of the war, the Institution rapidly re- 
covered the ground that it bad lost, the roll ot pupils 
increased until new l»uildings were absolutely necessary, 
and in 1880-2 tbe present bandsome and commodious 
boys' building and cbapel were erected. 

Mr. Jacobs was. succeeded by liis nephew, Jobn A. 
Jacol^s, Jr., wbo continued in otiice until bis death, 
December 27th, 1878. In tbe Spring of 1879, Mr. D. 
C. Dudley, of lialeigb, Xortb. Carolina, was elected 
Superintendent. Mr. Dudley'slargeexperienceasa teach- 
er of tbe Deaf, his thorougb devotion to tbeij- interests 
and bis executive ability combined to make bis adminis- 
tration one ot development and progress, but unfortu- 
nately ill health soon caused him to give up bis place 
and seek a field where the climatic conditions were bet- 
ter suited to his physical condition. lie was soon after 
appointed Su[)erintendent of tbe Colorado School for 
tbe Deaf, and is still connected with that Institution as 
bead teacher. 

Under the management of the present Superintend- 
ent the Institution bids tair to [U'osper in the luture as it 
has in the past. Continued eflbrts are being made to in- 
duce tbe parents of all uneducated mutes in Kentucky 
to send their children to the Institution, that they may 
share tbe advantages of the State's bounty. The census 
returns over three thousand deaf mutes in Kentucky, of 
whom six hundred are of school age. Of these two 
hundred are or have been at school. It is greatly to be re- 
gretted that so many should voluntarily grow up in 
ignorance when education is offered to them free of all 
charges. That such a state of tbin<;s exists is to be at- 



8 



A SHORT HISTORY OF 



tributed to the lack of knowledge concerning the Insti- 
tution and its objects which prevails in the thinly settled 
part of the state; to the selfishness of some parents, who 
keep their mute children at home to work for them, and 
to morbid atfection in others who can not summon 
resolution to part from their children during the period 
of school life. 

A more detailed account of the Institution will be 
found in the following chapters, each, subject under its 
appropriate heading. 



LANDS BELONGING TO THE INSTITUTION. 



The purchases of land for the use of the Institution 
have been as follows: In 1826 the Board purchased of 
Jolin Tompkins ten acres of land and a house for |5, 000; 
three thousand down and the rest in six months. The 
land is encompassed in the present garden, and all of 
the yard lying south of a line drawn through the Boys' 
Building. Down to 1850 the garden lot was used as a 
pasture, and the garden was where the Girls' Building 
now stands. The next purchase of land was a lot of 
about three-fourths of an acre, on the corner of Tliird 
and Green streets, being the north-east corner of our 
present yard. It was used as a garden until 1882,wlien 
it was added to the yard. It was bought April 24th, 
1854, of Josepli Weisiger for six hundred dollars. 
April 22, 1856, J. A. Jacobs sold to the Institution a 
lot of ground on Second (it was then called Market) 
street, seventy b}' six hundred and seventy-eight leet,for 
four hundred dollars. It is on this lot that the noi'therii 
half of the Boys' Building now stands. February 17th, 
1858, the Institution bought of John R. Ford, thirty- 
seven and one-half acres of land lying on the north east 
border of the town limits. It consisted of orchard 



THE KETSTDTTCKT SCHOOL FOR THE DEAE, 



9 



and pasture; the price paid was $125 an acre, or $4,687.- 
50. This was a, valuable purcliase enabling the Institu- 
tion to turn the old pasture into our present garden, 
October 4th, 1858, the lot in which the old shop build- 
ing stood, sixty-eight by two hundred and twenty-six 
feet was purchased of James Nichols, for five hundred 
dollars. No more land was bought until May, 1870, 
when the orchard lot of five and one-half acres immedi- 
ately opposite the Institution and adjoining the garden 
was purchased from J. W. Proctor for $4,500. Septem- 
ber 8th, 1879, the small house and lot belonging to 
Mrs. Herron, lying on decond street, between the lots 
bought of Weisiger and Jacobs, was purchased for 
$2, -300. This gives the Institution all the square it 
stands on, except the northwest corner which is used 
and occupied by others. In January, 1881, the farm of 
thirty-seven and one-half acres bougld of Ford, 
in 1858, was exchanged for twenty-five acres lying 
adjoining and east of the Institution garden, with 
Benjamin Boiling, he paying $1055.66 cash to compen- 
sate for the difference of eleven and one-half acres. The 
land consists of a pasture and woodland, ar,d adjoining 
land already possessed by the Institution can be used 
to more advantage than that lying at a distance. June 
12th, 1882, the Institution purchased of the Tompkins 
heirs a brick residence with six and one-half acres of 
ground lying a short distance down the pike for $3,750. 
It is on this land that the spring is located from which 
the Institution receives its water supply. In January, 
1885, this property, exclusive of the spring and about 
two acres of land, was exchanged for the large building 
and grounds (13 acres) now used for the Colored De- 
partment, the Board giving .f5,000 to boot in the trade. 
This was a most valuable addition to the State's property, 
being admirably located for the purpose for which it is 
used. 

In 1881, a h^t lying between the Institution grounds 



A SHORT HISTOUT 01^ 



and the spring was purfliased for f 550 in order to gW& 
control of the right of waj of the water-pipe whieh ran; 
through it. July 26th, 1886, twenty acres of land ly- 
ing south of the Institution garden and adjoining the 
cow pasture were bought for $3,ii01. This purchase 
Avas made to get more pasture for the cows, but more 
especially to get possession of the never failing springs 
which otters an abundant supply of pure water for T,he 
stock. About a year. after, the Yieserpropei-ty whieh lay 
immediately sdmthof thegirls' building, containing some 
four and a half acres was purchased for $4,750 in order 
to prevent its- being sold off to undesirable parties, and 
in 1890, by securing a house andlot known as the Bate 
property for the sura of $2,350, all danger of being en- 
croached upon by irresponsible neighbors was averted. 

The total land owned by the Institution at present 
is about eig^hty acres, which cost, including the im- 
provements, $36,582.84. Of thi§ the State^ 
by direct appropriation, paid bul $19,550. There- 
were buildings on the lots bought of Tomp- 
kins, in 1823; of Mrs. Heron, in 1879; of the Tompkins 
heirs, in 1882; of Mrs.' Beatty, in 1884; of Yeiser, im 
1887, and Bate, in 1890, which added materially to 
their cost. 



fiUILDINGS OF THE INSTITUTION, 



From its establishment in April, 1823,to 1826, the; 
Institution occupied the old Field house on the south- 
West cornerof Fourth andMain s-treets. In January, 1826, 
by the purchase of the Tompkins property the Institution 
obtained a brick house of two stories with eight rooms 
and attic. This was occupied by the officers and female 
pupils, the boys sleeping in a small one-story house that 
stood in our present yard on Third street. In 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOB THE DEAF. 



11 



1832, at a cost of $2,078.03, an addition was built to the 
.girls' house It consisted of an ell from the rear, of one 
-story and attic, and a porch in front. This made a large 
i-oom that was used as general dining-room down to 
N"ov^ember 18th, 1857 and from then until July, 1881, 
it was occupied by the boys as a study-room. The attic 
or half-story above was all the sitting-room the girls 
had. In 1836 a school house the cost of which was es- 
timated at |5,000, was begun and completed in 1838, 
This w^as the present school-house, minus the porch and 
attic. In 1850 the school-house wa«i improved at a 
€Ost of f 2,500. by raising the roof so as to make a large 
attic, and by buikli ng a Doric porch. Part 
of this building was used as school-rooms, the wings and 
attic as a dormitory for the boys whose old dormitory on 
Third strset was turned into servants quarters, and 
afterwards torn down. The next year the girls' house 
was further improved by raising the half story over the 
dining-room, so as to make a full story and attic. This 
alteration afforded a large and convenient sitting-room 
for the female pupils. The porch was also raised to a 
second story, and in after yeai^ it was inclosed by 
weather-boarding making one additional room. The 
cost of these improvements was $1,264.68. A year 
later, in the summer of 1862, the old chapel^ one of the 
present school-houses was built at a cost of $3,155.99, 
half of which was by direct appropi'iation from the state, 
five hundred dollars was given by Mr. Jacobs, and the 
rest was from the Institution. 

By 1854, the buihlings in spite of enlaro-ements were 
crowded to *"heir utmost capacity, and more room was 
absolutely necessary. For this purpose tlie Board 
petitioned the Legislature for help. February 18th, 
1854, seven thousand five hundred dollars was ap- 
propriated for the further enlargement of the old 
buildings. On consideration, however, it was deemed a 
waste of money to attempt further additions to the old 
building.^, and it was decided to begin the erection of a 



12 



A SHORT HISTORY OF 



?iew edifice, one tliat would be properly arranged, and 
wliicli would afford aecomniodations for many years tcp 
eonie. With this view the eorner-stoiie (north-west) of 
the present girls' building was laid on the 16th day of 
April, 1855. The woik of building was delayed iw some- 
degree by the failure of the orieinal contractor, but a 
new one was secured, and the work progressed steadily 
until 1857 when, on November 17tl), its completion^ 
ivas celebrated by the family taking dinner for the first 
time in the large new dining-hall (now the girls' study- 
room.) The total cost of this building was $39,650.44, 

February 9th, 1856, the Legislature appropriated 
$10,000 to complete the work. This, with the originaS 
$7,500, was all the state gave, the rest coming from the 
permanent fund of the Institution. 

The new house having heen taken possession of by 
the officers and female pupils, tbeir old quarters were 
occupied by the boys, who vised them down to 1881. 
The rooms in the sciiool-house that the boys had occu- 
pied were turned into the museum, library, and shops. 
In 1859 the old shop building was begun, but for lack 
of funds was not completed till 1868. Its cost was 
about $1,500. More room becoming imperative the 
Legislature appropriated, March 27th, 1880, $30,000. to 
begin new buildings, and March 6th, 1882, $29,916. to 
finish them but this being inadefpiate to complete them 
on the plans projected it was supplemented by 
$6,725.88 from the funds derived from the sale of 
Florida lands. In the summer of 1881, the old house 
that had been occupied first by the girls and then by 
the boys since 1826, was torn down and the present 
handitome and comfortable buildings were erected. The 
first brick of the new chapel was laid May 11th, 1881^ 
and the building was completed and occupied for the 
first time in 1882. Work was begun on the boys'* 
house during vacatit)n, 1881, and it was occupied in 
October, 1882. *- 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



13 



In June, 1882, the old frame house, purchased with the 
lot on which it stood, of Mrs. Herron, in 1879, was torn 
down, and a new fi-ame house erected near by for the 
ofiieers of the mechanical department. The enlarge- 
ment of the mechanical department in 1886-7 made it 
necessary to secure more room, and the present com- 
modioiis shop building- was erected in 1888, at a cost of 
13,800.39. 

During the same year and the year following the 
gardener's cottage costing ^350; the laundry building, 
$3,826.10; an addition to the school building |2,704.96; 
and a new chapel and dining-room &c. at the Colored 
Department costing $5,046.87 were built, the principal 
part of the wood-work being done by our own foreman 
and his boys. The total cost for buildings and additions 
not including repairs and impi'ovcments, such as out- 
buildings, cisterns &c., is $132,428.78, of which the State, 
V)y direct appropriation, contributed $93,747.45 and Mr. 
J. A. Jacobs, Sr., gave $1,541.88, the rest coming from 
the permanent fund of the Institution. 



FLORIDA LAND GRANT. 



The American Asylum received soon after its estab-' 
lishment the grant from the Congress of the United 
States of a townsliip of land which was of material help 
in carrying out tlie objects of the Institution. It early 
occurred to the Trustees of the Kentucky Institution to 
endeavor to obtain a siuiiliar grant for the benefit ofthe 
Danville School. A [)etition was accordingly drawn up 
and presented to Congress by Hon. Thomas P. Moore, 
then member for the district in which the Institution 
was located. By an act approved April 6th, 1826, there 
was granted to the Institution "One township of land' 
^exceptin^- section sixteen for the use of schools there- 



14 



A SHORT HISTORY OF 



"on) to be located under the direction of the Secretary 
"of the Treasury, which land? should be and forevei- 
"remain to the use of said Asylum for the education of 
"indigent Deaf and Dumb persons, or if said asylum 
"shall sell said lands which it is authorized to do, the 
"money arising from such sale shall be and remain for- 
"ever to said use, and it shall be the duty of said 
"incorporators to sell said lands Mdthin five years from 
"the passsage of said act, and the same shall be located 
''m one of the Territories on lands to which the Indian 
"title has been extinguished." 

By various acts the time alotted for selliug the lands 
was extended, the last exteusi(m terminating diiringthe 
Civil War. Part of the land was located in the then 
Teiritory of Arkansas, On the 15th of April, 1826, 
Rev. Samuel K. N^elson was commissioned as agent and 
sent to Florida to locate the land under the grant. 
Most of the land he selected was in Jackson county. 
Different gentlemen acted as resident agents in Florida 
and Arkansas for the sale of land, and up to 1840 they 
reported the sale of 19,000 acres for $85,000. A large 
part of this however was in Florida post notes and other 
currency that liad greatly (lei>iV( i:iti'(l in value. The Insti- 
tution also lost considerable through the defalcation of one 
of its agents. He died suddenly from yellow fever and 
on examination of his accounts he was foundtobeindebt- 
ed to the Institution for about $18,000. with little or no 
assets to meet it. The total cash receipts from the 
land gi'ant, by the Institution, down to 1861 when tlie 
last payment was received, was to the amount ol 
$56,549.42, a large part of which was ai)i)ropriated to 
the erection of the present girls' building. Some hiud 
was sf)l(l and the [)ayment to the amount of |3,1<)0. 
collected therefor after the war had hegun. The 
money, which w:is in Confederate Treasury notes, 
could not be forwarded, and was invested hy the agent 
in Confederate )ionds which of coni'se pr(n (.'d woi thh ss. 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



15 



HEALTH. 



Since it was first establislied the Institution Las en- 
joyed almost entire immunity from epidemic diseases. 
Oood health has been the rule among the pupils which is 
the more remarkable as most of them have been young- 
children, manyjwith constitutions shattered by theilisease 
that caused loss of hearing. In 1849, when cholera was 
epidemic throughout the country, it appeai-ed in Dan- 
ville from July to September, and twenty-four people in 
the neighborhood of the Institution died. The school 
was closed up and th-e pupils placed with farmers in the 
country. Fifteen were taken sick hut only one died. In 
the summer of 1876, dysentery appeared among the pu- 
pils, making necessary the closing of school ten days 
earlier than usual, and two deaths occurred. The total 
number of deaths among the pupils in the Institution 
in a period of seventy years, since 1823, is but twenty. 
From 1823 to 1854 there were only six deaths. jSince 
then the following are recorded. 

February, 9th, 185-, Mildred A. Young, tiged fifteen, 
of erysipelas. 

October 17th, 185-;- — AIary Belle SparKvS, aged 
thirteen, of putrid sore throal. 

April 14th, 1861;— Andrew J. Ross, of pneumonia. 

March 24th, 1863; — James Reed. 

June 21, 1870; — John W. Paxton, aged thirteen, of 
'effusion of brain. 

June 29th, 1876; — John W. Congleton, of dysentery. 

July 7th, 1876; — Mary E. Mullen, aged fifteen, of 
dysentery. 

February 10th, 1877; — Sarah J. Austin. 

March 20th, 1880; — James H. Barrett, aged nineteen, 
of intussusception of bowels. 

]S^overnber 12th, 1881; — Samuel Pence, aged nineteen, 
killed by cars. 



16 



A SHORT HISTORY OF 



February 18tli, 1875; — Eddie McCormick, aged fif- 
teen, of rhemnatisni of the lieart. 

April 20th, 1889; — Carrie Beagle, aged sixteen, of 
sarcoma of the brain. 

March 5th, 1890; — Rosetta Allen, aged thirteen, of 
spinal meningitis. 

April 26th, 189];; — Kiah Eeed, aged thirteen, of 
spinal meningitis. 

Among the officers nine deaths have occurred, as fol- 
lows: 

Summer of 1833; — Mrs. Frances Kerr, Matron, of 
cholera. 

Summer of 1833; — Eey. John R. Kerr, Superintend- 
ent, of cholera. 

September 29th, 1849; — Mrs. Susan P. Jacobs, Ma- 
tron. 

March 26th, 1865;— John Blount, Teacher. 
May 3rd, 1865, — Mrs. Nancy M. Jacobs, Matron. 
May 10th, 1869; — Rev. Samuel B. Cheek, Teacher. 
November 27th, 1869; — John A. Jacobs, Sr., Princi- 
pal. 

May 2nd, 1876;— James G. George, Teacher. 
December 27th, 1878; — Tohn A. Jacobs, Jr., Princi- 
pal. 



TRADES- 

The subject of teaching the male pupils trades, which 
they could follow for a support after leaving school, 
early engaged the attention of the Institulion officers, 
but for many years the lack of funds, and of shop room, 
prevented the subject from receiving that (-onsideration 
which its importance merits. For some years previous 
to the war an arrangement Avas in vogue by which some 
of the l)oys worked [>art oi the day with mechanics in 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOK THE DEAF. 



17 



the town, and a number of pupils acquired a knowledge 
of trades in this way. The war broke up this arrange- 
ment, and it eould not be renewed. A shop building 
was erected in 1862 and several attempts to establish 
trades made, but it was not till March, 1874, when under 
the Superintendence of one of t he teachers, Mr. James 
'G. George, a practical printer, a printing office was fit- 
ted up in the second story of the old chapel building. A 
book bindery was next estaljlished, in September, 1879. 
In 1883, by the employment of a practical carpenter,that' 
trade was thrown open to the piipils, and in 1885 a shoe 
shop, with competent foreman, was added bringing this 
department up to its preseiit status. Broom and mat- 
ress making have received some attention, l)ut as there 
is little sale for their produce, the^^ do not warrant a 
regular shop* and instructor, (xardening has been 
steadily pursued since the Institution moved to its own 
land in 1825, and has given employment to a majority 
of the male pupils. liegular instruction has been given 
since the first to the female pupils in sewing and house- 
work. 



LITERARY SOCIETY. 



Through the efforts of Mr. J. W. Jacobs the pupik 
established, in 1857, a literary society which is still in 
■existence. The pupils, both male and female, compose 
its membersand meetings are held every Saturdaynight 
for debate, delivery of addresses by speakers selected 
from among the pupils, and lectures delivered by officers 
of the Institution. Througli the eftbrts of the Society 
and from funds raised among graduates and ]iupils, fine 
])ortraits were obtained of Laurent Clerc, J. A. Jacobs, 
Sr., Samuel B. Cheek, and J. W. Jacobs, which now 
liang on the walls of the Institution parlor. 



A SHORT HISTORY OP' 



TIME ALLOWED BY LAW FOR STATE PUPILS. 

By the act of 1822 the State appropriafed one hund- 
red dollars per annum for the board and tuition of indi- 
gent pupils whose number was limited to twenty -five, 
and the period they were to remain to three years. By 
an act approved January 4, 1824, the per capita was in- 
ci^eased to one hundred and fifty dollars, and by an act 
, approved January 9, 1827; the time was extended to 
five years, and the per capita reduced to one hundred 
and twenty dollars. This was done at the instance of 
the Trustees who expected that the receipts from sales 
of Florida lands would more than balancethedeficiency. 
They proved to be mistaken however, and in 1852 the 
per capita for atate pupils was increased to one hundred 
and forty dollars at which fignre it now stands. 

The limit of twenty -five for state pupils was not 
reached until about 1840, when it was exceeded and an 
act was passed in 1846 extending the number to thirty. 
By an act approved February 29, 1836, the Trustees 
were allowed to select each year five of the state pupils 
Avho had shown special aptitudefor acej[uiringknowledge 
and continue them two years longer or seven years in 
all. Finally by au act api>roved February 18, 1854, ail 
limitations were removed by nndcing applicable to the 
Institution for Deaf-Mutes au act passed in 1852 for the 
benefit of the Blind. 

By this act the Trustees Were authorized to receive 
all children of suitable age, character, and capacity with- 
out regard to their pecuniary circumstances. By the 
same act all children Avho might enter under the age of 
thirteen, were to be allowed to remain till twenty-one 
as a l)eneficiaries of the State. 

By an act, approved June 3, 1865, parents were re- 
(piired to pay, as far as they were able, foi- the clothing 
and contengent expenses such as books, medical attend- 
ance, &c., of their children. The charge for contengent 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



1^ 



expenses was fixed at not to exceed twenty-five dollai-s 
per annum. March 27, 1880, in an act appropriating 
money for erection of new bnildings a clause was in- 
troduced requiring parents, when able, to pay for the 
board and tuition of their children. This was repealed 
at the next session of the Legislatureiti anact approved 
March 6, 1882, which provides that "all children should 
be received and taught free of charge for board, tuition, 
and use of books and other apparatus used in teaching." 



ATTENDANCE. 



Since the establishment -of the Institution one thous* 
?ind and sixty-two (1062) pupils have entered, of whom 
615 were boys, and 447 girls. The first class which 
entered in 1823 contained seventeen pupils, as follows: 



Name | 


Age 1 


Residence | 


Entered 




Lucy Barbee, 


24 


Green county 


April 


10, 


1823. 


Eveline Sherrill 


12 




n 




<< 


Jabez Gaddie 


16 


(I u 


(i 




< < 


Hebecca Machen... 


27 


Simpson " j 


May 


20, 


t < 


Wm. Moreli6ad 


13 


Lincoln " ! 




(( 


(< 


Martha Riley 


21 


Woodford " ' 


June 


12, 






15 


Shelby " 


July 


1, 


(■( 


Edith Lewellin, , . 


13 






< t 




John Goggin 


21 


Madison " 




9, 


( ( 




17 


Adair " 




< i 


1 1 


Barney McMahon.. 


12 


Jefferson " 


<( 


23, 


1 ( 


John "Withers 


21 


Lincoln " 


Aug. 


20, 


( ( 




25 


Jelferson " 


Oct. 


27, 


<< 


Thos. Hoagland 


30 


Fayette " 


Nov. 


3, 


■ii 


Samuel Struckler... 


23 


Scott 




10, 


1. 1 


ISTancy McClosky..-- 


25 


Livingstone Co. 




19, 




Narcissa Fowler... . 


15 




1 


t L 


<4 



Of this class only one is known to be now alive, Miss 
Eveline Sherrill, living at Greensburg, Ky. Of tiie 1062 
pupils who have passed through the Institution many 



A SHORT HISTORY OJ' 



liave died and others removed to distant states. Manjr 
have married, and in a few cases their children audi 
grand-eliildren, being deaf, have come as pupils to the 
school where their parents were e€lueated. The great 
majority of the graduates have led sober industi-ious 
lives, respecting tliemselves and respected by those 
around them. 



DONATIONS, 



The lusfitution has received a few donations from 
f)rivate jiersons, as follows: — 

1825: From citizens of New Orleans, by S. K. Nelson,.. ..$427. 50, 

1825: From Rev. S. Finley $30.00, 

1825: From Chas, Henderson, , „, $50.00, 

1846, Dec. 14: From J. A. Jacobs, to building wash house..$95.95- 

1847, Dec. 20: Ftom J. A, Ja,C5obs, to improving- girls' 
depart m e n t $541 . SS. 

1850, Sept, 9: From Capt. Magowan, for library,... $1,000.00. 

1851, Jan. 25: From J. A, Jacobs, to improving school 
house , , |500.0». 

1852, Feb. 4: From J. A. Jacobs, to paying Mr. Cheek's 
salary $125.00, 

1853, Oct. 7: From J. A. Jacobs, to building chapel $-500.00- 

1853, Oct. 7: From J. A, Jacobs, to paying Mr. Cheek's 

salary... $125.00, 

1860, May 2: From J. A. Jacobs, to printing Primary 

Lessons. , , - $500.00, 

1873, July 8: From Dan'l Oozatt, for library $500.00. 

1877, March 7: From Dan'l Cozatt, for library , $500.00, 

Total 14,895.33. 



*■ 

I^OTE.—- Library Pund. The $2!.000. donated for library has 
been sacredly set apart for that particular pur])()se and the 
proceeds invested from time to time in such books,papers,&c., 
as are suited to the needs of our pupils. 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 
BOARDS OF TRUSTEES. 



21 



The act of iucoqioration named the Trustees of 
Centre College as Trustees for the Institution. 

The original Board was composed of the following 
gentlemen: 

Hon. John Boyle, L. L. D., Ch. Judke oj Kentucky; 
Chairman. 

James BiKNEY. Wm. Craig. 

Wm. Owsley. Jeremiah Fisher. 

Thos. Montgomery. John Greek. 

Samuel McKee. Edward Worthington. ' 

James Barbour. Egbert B. McAfee. 

Thos. Cleland, D. D. Benj. H. Perkins. 

Samuel K. Nelson, I). D. Wm. Miller. - 
David G. Cowan. Joseph McDowell. 

Ephriam McDowell, M.D. John Higgins, D. D. 
James Harlan, Secretary. 
The Triistees of Centre College continued to act 
Trustees for the Institution down to 1870. In that 
year, hy an act approved Janaary 7tli, the Institution 
^\'as reorganized with h. Board ot nine commissioners to 
iie appointed by the Governor with the advice and con- 
sent of the Senate. This Board was divided into three 
classes, of three members each, two of whcuu were to l)e 
from Boyle County, and the remaining member from 
an adjoining county. The term of the first class was to 
expire in two years, of the second class in four years, 
and of the third class in six years. 

By an act approved March 18th, 1870, the number 
was increased to twelve, divided into three classes of 
tour members each, who serve for a term of six years; 
the terms of one-third of the Board expiring every two 
years. Since then the following gentlemen have served 
as Trustees for the periods opjtosite their names: 



22" A SHORT HISTORY OF 

f Clifton Roctes, of Boyle county 1870-7^, 

* Jn,TnesL Allen, of Boyle county 1870 

+ Robert W. Graham, of Boyle county 1870-77- 

M J. Durham, of Boyle county... 1870-73; 1882-85. 

A S. McGrorty, of Boyle county 1870-73, 

f Win A. Downton of Boyle county 1870-78- 

t Geo. R. McKee, ofltenton county 1870-88' 

J. A. Grinstead, of Fayette county- Jan. 1870 to May, 1870. 

t "Wna. Johnson, of Nelson county 1870-88. 

* Geo. F. Lee, of Boyle county 1870 

t Samuel Ayres, of Boyle county 1870-821 

Wm. Daviess, of Mercer county 1870--74- 

* J. W, Proctor, of Boyfe scounty 1873 

t J.W. Grigsby, of Boyle county 1874-77- 

i J. H. Bruce, of Garrard county - 1874-85. 

J. W. AlcoTn, of Lincoln county 1870-82, 

John Cowan, of Boyle coiintv 1873-83. 

* Jo. H. Thomas, of Boyle county 1877 

* S.V.Rowland, ofBoyle county 1877 

» W. L. Caldwell, of Boyle county.., 1878 

H. S. Withers, of Lincoln county 1882 92. 

Thos. McRoberts, ofBoyle county 1882 

S. Van Winkle, ofBoyle county ..1885 -89- 

T Wm. Berkele, of Garrard county 1885-92- 

•» Dr. J. W. Powell, of Mercer county... 1888 

* S. A. Xewell. of Pulaski county 1888 

* IS. O. Rodes, of Boyle county 1889 

« Dr. M.D.Logan, ofBoyle county 1891 

* L. H. Hudson, of Garrard county 1892 

* S. H. Shanks, of Lincoln county 1892 

* Present, members of Boani. f Oecciiserl. , 

Tlie officers of the Boai'd have been as follows: 
PRESIDENT, 

M. J, Durham, 1870-73. 

+ J". W. Grigsby, 1873-77. 

i R. W. Graham Jan. to Nov. 1877- 

t Samuel Ayr.s, 1877-82. 

J.W. Proctor, 1882 

SECRETARY. 

A. S. M.'Grorty, 1870-73. 

,1, W. Proctor, 1873-7t;. 

J. A. Jacobs, Jr, 1876-78. 

S. V. Rowland, 1878 

TREASURER. 

i ^'lifton Rhodes, 1870-7S, 

Jo. H. Thomas, 1878 

AUDITOR. 

f Wm. .\. Downton, 1870-73. 

James L. Allen, 1873 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 2-3 
OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTION. 



PRINCIPAL'S. 

t DeWitt Clinton Mitchel, l'823-25, 

■f John A. Jacobs, Sr, 1825-69. 

-t John A. Jacobs, Jr, ^ , 1869-79. 

David O Dudley, 187E-64. 

W. K. Argo, 1884 

SUPltRINTENDENTS OF THE BOARDING DEPARTMENT. 

t Rev. John R Kerr, 1823 32 

t Dr. Luke Munsell, , 1833-35' 

t John A. Jacobs, Sr., , 1835-54. 

MATRONS. 

t Mrs. Frances Kerr, ,..1523-33- 

t Mrs. Luke Munsell, 1822-35. 

t Mrs. Susan Jacobs, 1834-49. 

t Mrs. Ana W. Field, lS4<)-52. 

Mrs. A. F. Cheek, 1852-53; 1865-73. 

t Mrs. Nancy Jacobs, 1853-65, 

Mrs. Mary F. Dudley, 1873-92. 

Miss Anna Bowmaii, 1892 

ASSISTANT MATRONS AND HOUSEKEEPERS. 

Mrs. A. F. Cheek, 1353-65. 

Miss Elsie Aubert, 1865-66. 

JNIrs. Phobe Wilbank, 1866-67. 

Mrs. E. H.Porter, 1867-68. 

iMiss M. E. Moss, 1868 

COLORED DEPARTMENT. 

Mrs. Nannie Long, - 1885...... 

PHYSICANS. 

t Dr. Joseph Weisiger, , ,..1823-45. 

t Br. William Pawling, 1845-72. 

Dr. George Cowan, 1872 

TEACHERS. 

t De Witt Clinton Mitchell, 1823-25. 

+ JohnR. Kerr, 1823-33. 

1" John A, Jacobs, Sr., 1825-54. 

t William D Kerr, .." 1S31-51. 

-tiJohn Blount, 1846-65. 

1 Samuel B. Cheek, 1851-69. 

•i-TJordan Cozatt, 1852-57. 

t;Miss Elizabeth Young, 1854-58. 

+ John W. Jacobs, 1854-(il 

Charles H. Talbot,.. „ia-i7-62: 1865-76. 

X Edwar.l B. Miles, 1858-66. 

+ John A, Jacobs, Jr. 1858-61; 1865-69. 

Mrs. Eliza Heron, 186-;-73. 



24 A SHORT HISTORY OF 

t Georg-e T. Schoolfield, , 1866 

X Miss Arabella Jones, 1866-74, 

* Miss Martha A. Stephens, 1869-71; 1874 

t*James G. George, 1871-76- 

William Weedin 1874-75. 

Rev. LeveusEddy, 1875 

t John H. Yeager, 1876 

Georg-e F. Lupton, 1875-81. 

William K. Argo, 1879-84_ 

Miss Jennie Lee, 1880 

* George M. McClure, 1880 

MisbAnne Wardroper, 1881-89. 

Miss Anne M. Black, 1884-85.' 

t Miss Belle M. Beard, 1884-88. 

J. H.Johnson 1884-88- 

Miss Stella P. Yost,.. 1885 

Miss Emma Wilson, 1886-87. 

MissSallie Ellis, 18S7 

Augustus Rogers, :...1888 

Mi s. Anne Rogers, 1889 

Miss Nellie Lyle, 1891 

Miss Pattie G e n try , 1891 

COLORED DEPARTMENT: 

» Morris T. Long,. 1885 

% William J.Blount, 1886 

Miss Frances Barker, 1889-91. 

Miss Mabel Maris, '. 1891 

SUPERVISORS. 
Floiirney Payne, Supervisor oi boys, 1885-87. 

* Frank Christman, " " " 1887 

* Mi-is Maggie E. Fella, Supervisor of Girls 1886-89. 

Miss Anna Spears, " " " 1889-91- 

Miss Ruth Depeauw, " " " 1891 

FOREMEN OF SHOPS. 

+*Jame8 G George, Foreman of Printing Office, 1874-76. 

■t John B. Yeager, " " " " 1876-86- 

* George M. McClure, " " " " 1886 

* Chas P. Fosdick, " " Book Bindery, 1879-83. 

Henry Scales, " " Carpenter shop, 18S0-82- 

Jaines Collings " " " " ..188283; 1886 

Andrew J. Veatch, " " Shoe shop, 1S.S6 

GARDENERS. 

Daniel Scott 1857-61. 

t .Toll 11 Gore 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL TOR THE DEAF. 25 

JtMarion Rope_ 

D. C. SiillTvan 1872-7&. 

James O'Hara 1876-77. 

James Reindun, , 1877-79. 

John Chriscman, 1879-80: 1883 

Henry H. Scales, '. 1880-81- 

* Morris T. Lonjr, 1881-84- 

5 Hiram B. Marlowe l?584-85' 

Alfred Reinsdorff, 1885-86. 

SEAMSTRESSES. 

5 Annie M. Harvey, , 1878-81. 

Mrs. Nannie R. Long, ; 1881-84, 

Mrs. Mollie Simpson, 1884-85. 

Miss Cliloe Cowan, 1885...... 

ENGINEER. 

Walter C. Simpson, , 1882.;.... 



Hearing officers unmarked- J Deaf Mutes: *Semi-mutes: t De- 
ceased. 



BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCHES. 



Argo, William K., A. M, Bc^rn in Garrard conmy 
Ky., 1857. Graduated from Centre Colleg-e, at Dan- 
ville, Ky., in 1879. Teacher in the Institution, 1879 to 
1884. Appointed Superintendent November 5th, 1884, 
which office he holds at this writing. Married Miss 
Isabella Clieiiault, of Louisville, Oct6ber 7th, 1886. 

AuBERT, Miss Elsie, Housekeeper from October? 
1865, to September, 1866. 

Barker, Miss Francis E., Teacher at Colored De- 
partment, September 1890 to June 1891. 

Beard, Miss Belle M., Born in Spencer county, K}^- 
Pupil, 1864 to 1871. Teacher 1884 to 1888. Married 
Robert H. King, a deaf mute, of Lexington, Ky., in 
1888. 

Black, Miss Anna M. First teacher of articulation^ 
1884 to 1885. Resigned to take charge of the Rhode 
Island School for the Deaf. 



2^ 



A SHORT HISTOKT OT 



Blount, John, Pupil (from Alal>ama) fonr yeaTg> 
from 1843. Married Miss Annie Hoagland, a deal- 
mute. Monitor and teacher 1846-(i5. Died at the- 
Institution, March 26th, 1865. 

Blount, William J., (deaf-mute.) Son of John. 
Blount and Annie Hoagland, hoth of whom were deaf. 
Pupil 1869-74. Pupil in Indiana School 1874-79, 
Appointed teaclier at colored department in 1886,, 
which position he still holds. 

Bowman, Miss Anna, Appointed Matron in 1892 to 
succeed Mrs. M. F. Dudley, (resigned.) 

Cheek, Mrs. A. F., (Daughter of J. A. Jacohs, Sr.y 
and wife of Rev. S. B. Cheek.) Matron, 1S52-53 and 
1865-73. Assistant Matron, 1853 to 1865, l^ow liv- 
ing in Danville. 

Cheek, E.ev. S-amuel B,, Born in Adai r county, Ky.^ 
May 30th, 1824. Graduated at Centre College in 1848, 
Entered the miiiistiw of the Presbyterian Church. Mar- 
led Miss A. F. Jacobs. Teacher and Vice- Principal 
1851-69. Died at the Institution, May 10th, 1869, 
Age, forty-live years. 

CoLLiNUS, James W., Born in Virginia. In 1861, en- 
listed in the 37th Virginia Infantry of the C. S. A. and 
served through the war. Was wounded in the knee at 
Antietam, Md. Came to Kentucky in 1867. Foreman 
of Institution carpenter shop, 1882 to 1883 and 1886 to* 
date. 

Cowan, Miss Chloh, Seamstress since 1885. 

Cowan, George, M. D., Pbysiean since 1871. 

CozATT, Jordan, Pupil five years from 1840. Teach- 
er, 1852-57. Married Elizabeth A. Young, a fellow- 
teacher in 1858. Died in 1862. 

Dudley David C, A, M., Bom in Raleigh, North 
Carolina, April 23rd, 1844. Attended the schools of 
the city between the ages of six and fourteen. At four- 
teen accepted a position in the mechanical department 
of the North Carolina Institution lor the Deaf, Dumb 



THE "KETmiCKY SCHOOX TOTITHE DEA¥. 



57 



tand Blind, remaining there for five yeai-s till 1868v 
Afterwards supervised this department and acted as* 
•clerk for the Principal, 1868-70. 

During these seven years, he became thoroughly con- 
versant with the sign language, and also pursued the 
study of the languages and mathematics under Prof. J_ 
A. Simpson of the Blind Department of the Institution,, 
Appointed teacher in the Deaf Mute Department in 
1870, at the age of twenty one. Married, at twenty- 
three. Miss Markie Cole, of Greenville county, ]S"ortli 
darolina. Received the degree of A. M., from Trinity 
'College, of iforth Carolina, in 1879. Appointed Princi- 
pal of the Kentui'ky Institution, 1879, which position 
he held until compelled to resign on account of ill 
health, in 1884. Superintendent of the Colorado Insti- 
tution until ill health again made him abandon such on- 
erous work. Teacher in the Colorado School since 
1888. 

Dudley, Mrs. Mary F., Matron, 1B73-92. 
Eddy, Leveus, A. M., Born in Cazenoovia, New York 
1834, graduated from Williams College, Williamstown, 
Mass., in 1853. Received the degree of A. M. in 1856. 
Engaged in surveying during the summers of 1854- 
1856, and was occupied during the winter iji teaching- 
Teacher in the Delaven, Wisconsin, Institution 1858- 
1874. Principal Romney, West Virgiaia, Institution 
Febi'uary-Juiy 1874. Teacher Kentucky Institution 
since 1874. 

Married Miss 0. S. Taylor, June, 1861. Licensed to 
preach in 1870. Oi'dained a minister (Presbyterian) 
October, 1878. 

Field, Mrs. Ann W., Matron 1849-1862. 

FosDicK, Charles P., Born in Louisville, Ky. Lost 
hearing partly at nine years old, and entirely at fifteen, 
at which time attack of inflamation of the eyes render- 
ed him blind for a year. Pupil at Danville three years 
1875—1878. Foreman of Book Bmdery and assist- 



f8 A SHORT HISTORY OF * 

ant editor Kejjtuckt Deaf-Mute 1879— 1883. 'Now an 
orange grower at Glen Etliel, Orange Co. Fla. 

George, Jambs Goodloe., Born September 8th, 1825^ 
in Garrard Co., Ky. Became partially deaf from scarlet 
tever in 1823, and totally so a year after at tbe age of 
seven. Entered tbe Institution as a pupil in 1839, and 
remained till 1843, when be went to Frankfort wbere- 
he leanied tbe printing business in tbe ollice of tbe 
Frankfort Commonwealth, Avhere be i-emained till 1854 
when be accepted tbe position of teacher in tbe Institu- 
tion at Fulton, Missouri, In 1851 he married Miss 
Louisa Webstei% a deaf mute educated at Danville, who- 
died in 1856. Feeble health compelled him in 18G0 to 
retire from the Missouri Institution and he returned to 
Kentucky and became editor and proprietor of the 
Richmond Messenger: On tbe breaking out of the Avar h^ 
espoused the cause of tbe Union and in 1862 his office 
was destroyed by Confederate troops, and be was obliged 
to leave Richmond. He retired to Louisville where be en- 
tei?ed tbe officeof the provost marshal, as chief clerk. At 
the close of the war, he obtained a position as book- 
keeper in a Louisville bouse and held it till 1858, when 
he purchased land near St, Joseph, Missouri, and tried 
farming for a while, but returned to Kentucky in 1869, 
and was appointed teacher in this Institution in 1871, 
remaining here till his death which occurred May 
2nd, 1876. He established the Kentucky Deaf-Mute in 
1874, and was editor and foreman of the printing- 
office, 1874-76. 

His son, I). Webster George, is at present a teacher 
in tbe Jacksonville, Illinois, Institution, 

Grissom, Miss Susan T., Pupil seven years from 
1864. Tanglit a class temporarily, 1874, 

Hale, Miss Zebray J., Pupil seven years from 1851. 
Monitress 1859. 

Heron, Mrs. Eliza, (daughter of John A. Jacobs, Sr.) 
Teacher, 1864-73. Living at Memphis, Tennessee. 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



29 



Harvey, Miss Annie M., Pupil seven years from 
1870, Seamstress, 1879-81. Married Marel Parks, a 
semi-mute, September 15tli, 1882. Living near Rich- 
mond, Ky. 

Irvine, Daniel C, An ini poster who was employed 
as the tirst teacher in 1823, but was discharged for mis- 
conduct after a few weeks service. 

Jacob-!, John Adamson, Sr., Born in Leesbnrg, Vir- 
ginia, in 1806. Removed, wliile an infant, with his 
parenis to Lexington, Kentucky, and afterwards to 
Lancaster, Oarrard county, where his boyhood was 
passed. He was left an orphan at the age of thirteen. 
He entered a store as elerk hut soon left and went to 
Madison county, where he obtained a school, (he being 
then but fourteen years old,) which he continued to 
teach till he was seventeen, wlien having saved enough 
for the purpose, he came to Danville and entered Centre 
College. 

While a student, in 1824, he was offered and accepted 
the position of Principal of the recently established In- 
stitution for Deaf Mutes, Soon after, Ije went to Hart- 
ford, where he spent a year qualifying himself for the 
position. He returned to Danville and took charge of 
the Institution in 1825, he being then only nineteen 
years of age. He taught a class, in addition to his other 
duties, down to 1854. 

In 1835, he took charge of the boarding depai tment, 
then separate from the other parts of the Institution, 
and conducted it till 1854, when he voluntarily relin- 
quished it to the Institution, receiving in lieu a salary 
of one thousand dollars as Princi})al. The saving of 
the Institution by this was from $1500 to $2500 'per 
annum. 

Mr. Jacobs contributed liberally from his private 
means, to assist in improving the old girls' building, to 
building the school house and old <'liapel, and to p:i_ying 
the salaries of Messrs. Cheek and Blount for several 



so 



A SHORT HISTORY OF 



years. His total contiibntions for those objects was 
$2,880. He was twice married. Died at the Institu- 
tion, November '27th, 1869, ag-e.d sixty-three, having 
lield the position ofPrincipl forty-four years. 

Jacobs, J. A., Jr., (ISTephew of J. A. Jacobs, Sr.) 
Born in Cass coanty^ Michigan, November 6tb, 139- 
Moved with his parents to Missouri while a child. Grew 
np on a farm. In 1858, came to Kentucky and enter- 
ed the Inptitution as a teacher, where he remained till 
1861, wlien the outbreak of the war so reduced the 
number of pupils as to render his services unnecessary. 
He then returned to Missouri, and was then tendered a 
position as teacher in the Indiana Institution, but before 
the letter containing the offer arrived, he had enlisted 
in an Iowa regiment of cavalry, and was in active ser- 
vice till the close of the war. Then he was recalled to 
the Institution where he taught a class, and also per- 
formed most of the duties of principal for his uncle 
Avhose advanced age and feeble health rendered such 
aid necessary. 

Oil the death of Mr. Jacobs, Sr., in 1869, he was 
fleeted Principal, and held the position till his death? 
December 27th, 1878, aged thirty-eight. 

Long, Mrs. Nannie R., (wife of M. T. Long) Superin- 
tendent of sewing-room 1880. Matron and housekeeper 
at colored department since 1^84. 

LuPTON, George F., Teacher at Romney, W. Va., Insti- 
tutionl875. Teacherat the Danville Institution 1876-81- 

Lyle, Miss Nellie, Born in Boyle Co. Graduated at 
Caldwell College, 1890. Elected Assistant teacher, 1888. 

McClure, George Morris, Born in Lawrence Co., Ky-^ 
in 1861. Lost hearing at nine years ofage from typhoid 
fever. Entered Institution as a pupil in 1879, and took 
a special course of instruction under D. C. Dudley and 
W. K. Argo. Appointed a teacher in 1880 at the age 
of nineteen. Married Miss Carrie Jasper, of Jessamine 
onnty, Ky., in 1886. 

t Olio pasje omitted. See page 32. 



THE KENTUCKY SCHO'Of FOR THE DEAF. 



31 



Mams, Miss Mabel, Born in Athens Ohio, Attendee! 
school at Westchester Pa. Normal. Appointed teacher 
at colored department, 1891. 

Marlowe, Hiram B,, Pupil 1870-77. Gai-dener 1884- 
85. 

Miles, Edward B., Pupil five years from 1843. Teach- 
er 1 851-66. Married Mary Moormau, a deaf-mute, 1866. 
Living in Plardin County. 

Mitchell, I)e Witt Clinton, Teacher in the New 
York Institution 1822-23. On the e.stablishment ^f the 
Kentucky Institution, he applie<l for and obtained the 
position of principal, and held it 1823-26. Bein^ 
found entirely unqualified for the responsible office, he 
resigned in November, 1825. 

Moss, Miss M. E., Housekeeper since 1867. 

MuNSELL, Dr. Luke, Superintendent of ' boarding de_ 
partment 1833-35. 

MuNSELL, Mrs., Matron 1833-35. 

Pawling, Dr. William, Physician 184.5-72. 

Porter, Mrs. E. M., Housekeeper April 1867 to Apjil 
1868. 

Reinsdorff, Alfred, Born in Germany. Gardener 
1885-6. 

Rogers, Augustus, A. B., Born m Bourbon Co. Ky., in 
1863. Graduated at Centre College 1884. Appointtd 
teacher 1888. 

Scales, Henry, Gardener, 1880-81. Foreman of 
carpenter and broom shops 1881-2. Enlisted in U. 8. 
army 1883. 

Schoolfield, Geo. T., Born in Bracken Co., Ky., 1841. 
Losthearingininfar.cy; cause unknown. Entered Indiana 
Institution 1853, and remained tliree years. Tlie cli- 
mate not agreeing with him, he left and entered the Dan- 
ville Institution where he remained four years from 1856^ 
Graduated in 1861, and engaged in farming till 1866, 
when he returned to the Institution as a teacher, which 
position he still holds. Married in 1871 to Miss Emma 



32 



A SHORT HISTORY OF 



Beard, a deaf-mute, educated at Danville. Has four 
children. 

Scott, Daniel, Gardener and assistant steward 1857- 
61. 

Simpson, Walter C, Eng-ineer since 1882. 

Simpson, Mrs. Molly, Seamstress 1884-5. 

Stephens, Miss Martha A., Pupil eight years from 
1860. Teacher 1869-71 and since 1874. 

Talbot, Charles Henry, Graduated from Center 
College in 1856. Teacher in Institution 1857-62. En- 
listed in 1862 as a private in 19th Kentucky (Union) In- 
fantry. Promoted to be Lieutenant and Peginiental 
Quartermaster, Honorably discharged 1865. Teacher 
Danville 1865-76. Principal Jackson (Miss.) Institu- 
tion 1876-81. Now farming near Georgetown, Ky. 

Weiskjer, Dr. Joseph, Physician 1823-45. 

Wardroper, Miss Anne, Born in Woodford Co., Ky. 
Gi-aduated from Bell Seminary 1879. Teacher 1881. 
Married Augustus Rogers, July, 1889. 

Weedin, William, Graduated from Centre College. 
Teacher 1874-5. Living near Danvdle. 

WiLBANK, Miss Phoebe T., Housekeeper October, 1866, 
to April, 1867. 

Wilson, Miss Emma, Teacher 1886-7. 

Yost, Miss Stella P., ^fative of Pennsylvania. 
Taught Kindergarten in Wilkesbarre, 1879-82: ' Phila- 
delphia, 1882-5. Teacher of Articulation in Kentucky 
Institution since 1885. 

Jacobs, Joiix William, (son of J. A. Jacobs, Sr.,) 
Horn in Danville, February 16, 1837. Graduated from 
^'entre College in 1854, and was soon appointed ateach- 
er in the Institution, and remained till 1861. In 1859 
ho entered the Danville Theological Seminary and re- 
niained two years. Was licensed to preach October 
LS61. He at once entered the Union army as chaplain 
of the 4th Kentucky Regiment, (Gen. Fry's.) Died at 
Lebanon, Ky., January 20, 1862 of disease contracted 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



S3 



will I e caring foi' the sick and wounded in the hospitah 

Jacobs, Mrs. ISTancy M., (2nd wife of J. A. Jacohs, 
Sr.,) Matron 1853-65, serving without compensation. 
Died May 3rd, 1865. 

Jacobs, Mrs. Susan Poweli,, (1st wife of J. A. Jacobs, 
Sr.) Matron 1835-49. Died September 29, 1849. 

Johnson, J. H. Jr., son of J. H. Johnson, the founder 
of the Alabama, Scho<d for the Deaf. Born in Tallade- 
ga, Ahibama in 1861, Graduated at the University at 
a very early age. Teacher in the Alabama School 
1883-4. Appointed teacher in the Ky. School in 1884. 
Compelled to resign on account of ill health in 1888. 
Assistant Principal of the Alabama Academj^ for the 
Blind 1889 92. At present Assistant Superintendent 
and Principal of the Alabama Schools for the Deaf, the 
Blind and the Colored Deaf and Blind. 

Jones, Miss Arabella M., Pupil nineyears from 1852. 
Teacher 1866-74. Living in Louisville, Ky. 

Kkrr, Rev. J. R., Superintendent of Boarding 
Department and assistant teacher 1823-33. Died sum- 
mer of 1833 ol Asiatic cholera. 

Kkrr, Mrs. Frances (wife of J. R. Kerr,) Matron 
1823-33. Died 1833 a few days before her husband, of 
Asiatic cholera. 

Kerr, William D., (sou of J. R. Kerr,) Born in 
Albemarle county, Va., March 4th, 1808. Educated at 
Center College. Teacher in the Danville Institution 
1831-51. Superintendent of the Fulton (Mo.) Listitu- 
lion from 1851 till 1890. Died in 1890. 

Leic, Miss Jennie, Born in Danville. Graduated at 
Caldwell Seminary. Teacher since 1880. 

Lo\g, Morris T., Born in Madison county Ky. May 
29,1842. Pupil four years from 1856. Gardener at Insti- 
tution 1881-4. Teacher at colored department since 1884. 
Married in 1871 Miss ISTannie Robinson, a hearing lady. 

Yeager, John H., Born in Missouri May 29t]i, 1843. 
Moved to Kentucky in 1850. Pupil 1853-5 and 1859- 
61. Foreman of Printing office 1875-87. • Teacher 
from 1875 to date. Married Miss Annie Herndon, of 
Bank Lick, Kentucky, in September, 1880. 



A gfiORT HISTORY OP* 



METHODS OF INSTRUCTION. 



As has been estated, Mr. Jacobs, the first thoroughly 
qualified instructor in the Kentucky School, learned the 
art of teaching the deaf from Mr. Gallaudet, the founder 
of the first American School, at Hartford, Connecticut. 
To quote from Mr. Jacobs's report to the Legislature in 
1856, "Mr. Gallaudet and the gentlemen who were 
associated with him at Hartford soon began to give 
shape to what may be called the American System of 
instriietiou. It was, in the main, like the French Sys- 
tem of Sieard and De 'lEpee, but in many respects it 
tpas original and distinct from all other systems. Per- 
haps its main feature, as it came fully to develop itself,' 
Was its free spirit. Freedom from adherence to mere 
system and method may be named as the peculiar merit 
of American instructors. There is no means which ex- 
perience or sound reason recommends which cannot be 
readily incorporated into the American System. Like 
our social and political institutions, it freely receives 
what is good from all quarters, and by a plastic energy 
apparently peculiar to the ne\v world gives a beautiiul 
and homogenous form to the resulting whole." 

We have seen no reason to depart from this system 
so ably championed by Mr. Jacobs nearly forty years 
ago. From the beginning care has been taken to pre- 
serve the speech of those who had acquired facility in 
its use before hearing Was lost. Very little, however, 
was undertaken in the way of systematic instruction in 
lip reading and articulation until 1884 when one teach- 
er was employed to give her entire time to that work. 
There are at present, in addition to the instruction in 
speech and speech reading, two others who devote their 
whole time to those who have acquired some proficiency 
in the art or who have sufficient hearing to give us 
liope that properly cultivated it may be of service to 
them in the battle of life. 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



35: 



STATISTICAL TABLES. 



TABLE I. 



Showing amounts received fro.m State for support for 
the years ending October 31st, 1823-92. 



Year | 


A,iiiou nt 


1 


Y;ar ) 


Amount 


1 


Year j 


Amount. 




1823 


$3000 


00 


1847 


13965 


00 


1870. 


.116786 


66 


1824 


3867 


59 


1848 


3549 


31 


1871 


17528 


30 


1825 


2667 


62 


1849 


3170 


15 


1872 


17819 


15 


1826 


2496 


46 


1850 


3650 


61 


1873. 


...17178 


09 


1827 


3101 


30 


1851 


4618 


98 


1874 


17003 


13 


1828 


1858 


00 


1852 


4777 


36 


1875 


17877 


35 


1829 


1779 


87 


1853 


5878 


33 


1876 


18472 


30 


1830 


2050 


12 


1854 


.7790 


78 


1877 


17493 


00 


1831 


2809 


37 


1855 


9190 


14 


1878 


17259 


15 


1832 


3117 


62 


1856 


9568 


15 


1879 


14437 


70 


1833 


3087 


80 


1857 


9373 


19 


1880 


25168 


66 


1834 


2153 


84 


1858 


9463 


08 


1881 


23004 


03 


1835.. 


....1361 


54 


1859 


11568 


26 


1882 


25867 


75 


1836 


1375 


32 


1860 


12564 


68 


1883. 


27808 


70 


1837 


2089 


66 


1861 


...12389 


60 


1884 


27526 


65 


1838 


1636 


73 


1862 


9323 


99 


1885 




65 


1839 


1369 


25 


1863 


6394 


76 


1886. 


....33372 


50 


1840 


?284 


65 


1864 


10361 


02 


1887 


35015 


00 


1841 


1854 


99 


1865 


18066 


51 


1888 


44167 


00 


1842 


1883 


84 


1866 


12700 


47 


1889. 


....36437 


23 


1843 


2442 


33 


1867 


16676 


47 


1890 




00 


1844 


2374 


14 


1868 


19804 


85 


1891 


32645 


00 


1845 


2616 


34 


1869 


16478 


18 


• 1892 


44630 


00 






35 















TABLK II. 

Showing the amount received from State for special 
purposes for the years ending October 
31st, 1823-92, inclusive 



Year I 



Amount 



Year 



Amount 



Year 



Amount 



1826 


$3000 


00 


1870 




00 


1881 


1853 


1500 


00 


1872 


5750 


00 


1885 


1854 


7500 


00 


1873 


2250 


00 


1886 


1856 


10000 


00 


1876 


2500 


00 


1888 


1860 


10000 


00 


1880 


30000 


00 


1890 



..129916 



..5000 
..2000 
.17700 



.2006 25 



00 
00 
00 
00 



A SHOUT HISTORY OF 



TABLE III. 

Showing f fie number of pupils present and amounts re- 
ceived from same fijr tuition for the years 
ending October 31st,. 1823-92^ 
inclusive. 



Year 


Am't rec'd 


Number 


Year 


Am't rec\i 


Numbii 






of Pupils 






of Pupil 



1S23. 
1824. 
1825. 
1826. 
1827. 
1828. 
1829. 
1830. 
1831. 
18.32. 
1833. 
1834. 
1835. 
1836. 
1837. 
1838. 
1830. 
1840 
1841. 
1842. 
l8-t3. 
1844. 
1845. 
1846. 
1847. 
1848 
1849 
1850. 
1851. 
1852. 
1853. 
1854. 
1855. 
1856. 
1857. 



.1155 00 
60 
95 
71 
.23814 
.1800 



.157 
.367 
.180 



.191 



.24411 
.126 00 



.121 



97 00 



.35 
.25 
.35 
.47 
.41 



.79 98 
.58 50 



.65 



.69 



.64 30 



.125 00 



00 



97 



50 



30 



....62 
...140 
...712^67 
.1066 50 
...750 00 
.2392 00 



.14 

.26 
.28 
.28 
.24 
.18 
.20 
.24 
.27 
.30 
.21 
.17 
.16 

• 24 
.25 

• 22 

• 33 

• 28 

• 23 

• 30 

• 24 
•37 
•41 
•53 
•50 
■50 
•48 
•60 
•67 
•70 
•87 
•84 
•81 
•88 

• 86 



1858. 

1859. 

I860. 

1861. 

1862. 

]863. 

1864. 

1865. 

1806 

1867. 

1868. 

1869. 

1870. 

1871. 

1872. 

1873. 

1874. 

1875. 

1876. 

1^77. 

1878. 

1879. 

1880. 

1881. 

1882. 

1883. 

1884. 

1885. 

1886. 

1887. 

1888. 

1889. 

1890. 

1<S91. 

1892. 



50 
25 
00 
00 
12 
00 
./■64 50 
.904 50 
309 50 
.630 00 
.345 00 
.230 00 



.25 



.245 00 



.178 

.223 



..15 00 

.117 25: 

.160 00 
.895 00 
.170 00 



.|1507 
..1660 
..1529 56 
..1199 90 
....613 
..1092 
....755 
....755 
..1606 
....805 



00 



The law requiring' pupils to i)aj', w Ueii able to do so, was repealed 
ill 1882 for the reason (hat it was found practically inoperative. 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOK THE DEAF. 



37 



TABLK IV. 

Showing the auionnts received from Government 
Grant of Florida and Alabama 
lands in 1823 . 



Year | Amount 



Amount 



Year 



Amount 



1828 $2500 00 

1830 3962 50 

1831 1000 00 

1832 1009 17 

1833 1000 00 

1834 1000 00 

1835 8000 00 

1837 2000 00 

1840 6960 00 



1845 .f lOOn 00 

1846 1000 00 

1847 3000 00 

1848 1005 00^ 

1849 1675 Oo! 

1850 2164 501 

1851 3391 70 

1852 202^ 32 

.1853 3700 00 



1854 .'^5^<95 57 

1856, 1873 61 

1857 2089 05 

1858 1000 00 



1859. 



5888 



1860 2746 42 

1861 ...48 50 



58 



A lar^re part of this was expended in huildinsiS, some of it in sup- 
port wild the remainder aiiiounlin^' lo ^llJlOO, is invested and is 
known as the Permanent Fun<l. 



TABLE V. 

Showing Miscellaneous Receipts for the \-ears ending 
October .",1st, 182;;-<)2, inclusive. 



Year I Amount 



Year 



Ann m n t 



Year I Amuunt 



1825. 
1826. 
1827. 
1828. 
1841. 
1842. 
1845. 
1847. 
1850. 
1851. 
1852. 
1853. 
185^. 
1855. 
1856. 



.2550 00 
.30 00 
.50 00 
.58 50 
.3169 45 
.1367 
...541 



.1041 



.37 



..75 00 
.10641 
.637 01 
.333 63 
.479 50 



50 



1857. 

1858. 

1859. 

1860. 

1861. 

1862. 

1863. 

1865. 

1866. 

1867. 

1871. 

1873. 

1874. 

1875 

1876. 



100 

...535!00! 
...65200 
.111000 
.1653 00 
...480 27 
...386 00 
.1938 
.1821 
.1260 
....71 



.120 00 
..98!00 
.I67I0O 



1878. 
1879. 
1880. 
1881. 
1882. 
1883. 
1884. 
1885. 
1886. 
1887. 
1888. 
1889. 
1890. 
1891. 
1892. 



.184 
.270 



30 
27 



.68 60 



.1465 



.536 65 
.456 75 
.318 32 



59 



54 
Bl 



...417 
...677 
...475 
.1270:52 
.3462 70 
.117l'32 
.1000190 
.131358 



These receipts are largely from the sales of live stock, garden 
]>roducp, beef, hides ami miscellaneous articles. In iiUy calcuia- 
lions as to cost for maiiitenace etc.. they sliould not, of course, be 
included. 



38' 



A SHORT HISTaRY OF 



TABLE VI. 

Showing^ the receipts from the Mechanical Depart- 
ment, in fall to October 31st, 1892. 



Year 



AraouBt 



Year 



Amount 



Year 



Amount. 



1880. 
1881. 
1882. 
1883. 
1884. 



.|408 
...452 
...375 
...431 
...148 



85 
35 
55 
68 
25 



1885... 


....$95 


51 


1886 


54 


95 


1887 


319 


43 


1888... 


....641 


10 



1889 


1825 


90 


1890 


828 


39 


1891... 


602 


87 


1892 


840 


98 



The receipts from 1880 to 1884 were mostl}' from the bindery 
and broom shop. These trades were discontinued and in 1887, 
shoemaking and c;irpentry were added, which with the printing 
oflfice constitute the sources of receipts from that date. In an>' 
calculations as to cost of maintenance &c., these should not be 
added. 



TABLE VII. 
Showing Permanent Fund derived from sale of 
land donated by Congress. 



50 Shares, Boyle National Bank, Danville $5000 00 

5 Shares, Citizens' National Bank, Louisville. ...500 00 

Six 3 per cent Tennessee Bonds 6000 00 

One 3 per cent Tennessee Bond 600 00 

Total $12100|00 



Table vin. 

Showing the Library Fund, donated flOOO.OO each by Captain 
Megowan, of Montgomery county, Ky., and Daniel Cozatt 
of Mercer county, Ky. The interest to be used 
in providing reading matter for the school. 

One Bond, City of Louisville 



$1000 


00 


..1000 


00 



Total $2000j00 



TmE KENTUCKY SOHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



APPENDIX. 



liIST op PUPlliS 



^.dmitted to the Kentucky School top the Deaf from its 
opening, Appil 3Pd, 1823 till Appil 3Pd, 1893 



1 



40 



A SHORT HISTORY OF 



5; 


















Name. 


Post Ok fice 


CorxTY OF 


Admitted 








Date. 










Address. 


Residknce. 


> 

<C 


CO 

0 


tT 



IjBarbee, Lucy 

2 Fowler, iSTaivissa 

SGaddie, .J:ibez 

4Gc gj,dns, John 

Grissom William G 
Hoaglaiid, Tliomas.. 

Hoke, John 

Lewalleii, Edith 

9Lewalleii, Moses 

Maehea, Rebecca 

McKIesky, Nancy... 
McMalion, Barney... 
iVIorehead, Williuni.. 

14 Railey, Martha 

15 Sheriil, Eveline 

16 ^trickier, Samuel... 

17 Withers, John 

18 (.Tatewood, Thos 



10 
11 

12 
13 



19 Goins, Sebourne 

20 Gi-issom, Matilda 

21 Hall, Lawrei.ce.... 

22 Holloway, William. 

23 Jones, Isaac 

21 Parker, Beverly 

25 Reed, Martin 

26 Sagesar, Jacob 

27 White, John W 

2S Wrig-ht, Enoch 



Atwater, Eliza 

Baker, Angelina... 

Carter. Job 

Pile, Kittv Ann... 
Pile, Sally 

34 Robertson', Mary.. 

35 Story, A. L 

Story, James 

Terrill, Patsy. 



29 
:» 
31 
32 
33 



36 



Lexi7igton 



Louisville 



Frankfort 



37 

3gT)iorapson, Alex.. 
39 ' 



Williams, .Abraham 



4^) Brown, Ann "Mary. 
41 Bryant, Margaret. 
4-2 Philips, Deborah... 
43Rodos, J. W 



46 



44 Bailey. 



Elliott, 



47 Hamilton, 

48 Koenon, T 



Gx'een 


1823 


24 


Livingsiuii. 


u 


15 


Green 


ll 


16 


Madison 


(( 


21 




a 


1 7 


Fayette 


li 


30 


.Jenerson.... 


( 1 


25 


Shell.y 


1 1 


13 


Shell.y 


1 ( 


15 


Simpson 


(1 


27 


Livingston. 


11 


25 


Jeft'erson ... 


a 


12 


Lincoln 


n 


13 


Woodford .. 


u 


21 


Green 


u 


12 


Sr-nf r 


ii 


23 


Lincoln . , 


u 


21 


Nelson 


1824 




Franklin ... 


1824 


12 


Adair 






Lincoln 


i< 






u * 




Nelson 


1 i 




Payette 






Woodford .. 


" 




Jessamine .. 


( I 




-Tes.samine .• 


1. 




Wayne 


u 


28 




1S25 




Gamberrnd 






Spencer 


u 










Adair 


u 




Tr-nncssee .. 






Alabama ... 






Alabama 


(i 




Garrard 


I i 




Oanipl>e''l ... 


' i i 




Ciiiuberl'nd 


\ 

(( 




{"Pre ''kin 


1826 










Madison 


(I 




jFayette 


(( 




Franklin ... 


1827 






(( 




■ATadison 


u 




Bourbon 


a 




.Mississippi 


(I 

1 





1 

2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 

19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
25 
26 
27 

2S 
29 
30 
31 
32 
33 
34 
35 
36 
37 
38 

39 
40 
41 
42 

43 
44 
45 



SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



Deaf Rela- 
tives. 



Consan- 
guinity OF 
Parekts. 



Remarks. 



A- SHORT HTSTORF OF* 



EbsT Office 
Adduess. 



foUMY OF 

Resibekce 



A r):MiTT' n 



o 



49|iioss, George W„ 

50 ruUiss, E. JL „ 

51 Wiley, Rebecca.. 



Ohapman, Giles 

Lncket, Betsy Brook 
Rodman, William... 
Walker, Riley 



52 
53 
54 
55 

56 
57 

5,^ 

59 
60 
61 
62 
63 
64 

65 

63 
6^^ 
6: 
6£ 
7C 
71 
72 
7£ 

74 
75 

76[Dt)nlap, Thomaf. 
77 ' 
78 
79 
80 
81 
81 
83 

84 

85 



Arnetfc, David.-. 

Ba^-low, Francis. 

Brown, John P 

Ford, Silas 

Grissom, Emily...... 

Holt, Andrew D...... 

King, Andrew J 

Moore, W. P 

Pbrlips, J.,iicjn(ia 

Bushby, Edward 

Flouriiey, Adeline.. 

Flourney. Laura 

Forsy tlie,Je.S!se 

Grissom, Henry 

Keith, James 

Langdom, J<.ihn S 

shnrpe, Ann H 

Wliite, Thomas G.... 



89 
90 

01 
92 
93 

94 



Bell, J. G 

Oare^-, James.. 



Gate wood, Ctirtis.... 
" , Sally..... 
.Wiirinm.. 
Hoaglnnd. William. 
Kinchelop. Znlemn. 
Van Winkle, Jesse. 
Wood, Walter W.... 

Woods. John C 

nole, W. W 

Grissom, OscarD.... 

TohnsOn. J. N 

Alnrtin. ElTen S 

l\Tills, E'enor. 

Weldon, Charles A. 



Bledsoe, Moses 

TTndson, Lewis 

Todhnnter, Jacob. 

Adams, George 



Lexington. 



Danville,, 



Ohio ..„ 

Tennessee... 


1827 
u 

a- 


S. Caroli-n-a 

Shelby 

Henrv 

Eslill.„„.„. 


1828 
u 
u 
It. 


Bath..„„ 

Wash'ngt'n 

Misbou I 

.Madison 


1«29 
u 

i L 


Boai'bon 

Woodford .. 
Tennessee .. 
Madison 




Adair„ 

Caldwell 

Caldwell 

Pendleton .. 

Adaii„ 

Pendleton „ 

Pulasti 

Oldham 

Havi'ison .... 


1830 

u 

!(, 
I. 


Tpnnensee.. 

Clarke 

Fleming 
"Nf Ison.. 

Nelson... 

Fayi tte 

Nelson 

Pulask 
Mississ'pp^ 


1831 
(t 
(I 

\i 
1.1. 
u 

(< 


''^e/JKP.s.see .. 
Frnnklin 
Adair 


J 831 
1832 


Bonrlion 

A]f{h;\ma 

lefferson ... 
Bracken 


1 1 
t i 


^n\^p 


1833 


Tessamine .. 


(< 


Rockcastle.. 


1834 



WE "KENTUCKY SCHOOL TDR THE TyEA"P. 



" 1 




Deafnicss ^ 


>^i.:vF Rela- , 

'I'f VES. 


Consan- 






IT S^0][(>Ol 


Caube 


> 
■ 


iariNiTY -OF' 


RlSMA-P.-ICS. 


49 

50 
51 

h'l 
53 
54 

■55 

56 
■57 
■58 
■59 
•60 
'01 
'62 
•63 
'fid 

'65 
06 
'67 
CS 
'69 
-70 
71 


,1 




1. 














1 












J 










! 


" 








■I 






































































A 


. 










,.l 

'* 1 


. 






, 


— - 




i 
























1 




































72 


























73 

^74 
■75 
7'e 


; 


.. 


...... 




















77 


























7« 
7i 
«C 
■8] 
:85 
«J 


















































5 - 






































•:8(i 


i 
























•S 















■8 


C) 


























;9 




2 


1 











44 



A SHORT HISTORY OF 



a 
S 
w 



Name. 



Post Office 
Address. 



County of 
Residence. 



Admittud 



o 



99 
100 
101 
102 
103 
104 
105 
106 
107 
108 

109 
110 
111 
112 
113 

114 
115 
116 
117 
lis 
119 
120 
121 

122 
123 
124 
125 
126 

127 
128 
129 
130 
131 
132 
133 
134 
135 
136 
137 
138 
139 
140 
141 
142 



Bailey, O. P 

Ham, John 

Talbert, Benjamin... 

Beatty, deorge 

Black, Artemisia.... 
Blackford, George.. 

Fox, Araminta 

Gore, Mary 

Gore, Maston 

Hicks William 

Hudson, Nancy 

Holmes, William.... 
Swope, Margaret.. 
Bodkiii, Margaret 



Louisville 



Caiter, Edward 

Cooper Elizabeth.. 
Graves, i:i.lizabeth., 
Kelly, Elizabeth.. 
Walker, Josephine. 



Beat i ' well 

Dickson, Jno. P.... 
Fitzpatrick, Lucy. 
Noel, Elizabeth K. 

Orr, Andrew 

Ray, Samuel 

Thompson, John... 
West George W.... 

Allen, Robert X,... 

Clerc, Edward 

Erwin, William.... 
Vanderpool, Abr'm 
Whitley, William A 

Adams, Elizabeth... 
Aiterburn, Levi.... 

" , Rachel. 
Edmiston, JosepH. 
George James G.... 
Hanger, AVilliam... 
Harrel, Michael.... 
Johnson, Ozra 

" , Richard. 
Layne, William J. 

Orr, Caroline 

Orr, Elizabeth 

Porter, John C 

Ray, Elizabeth.... 

Vaughn William 

W ebb, Malinda 



Virguiia.. 
.>i;i(lison 
'iutler .... 



Owen 

doone .... 
Warren ... 
Jefferson 
Caldwell.. 
Caldwell.. 
Bracken . 
Alabama 
Indiana.. 
Garrard- 
Henry .... 



Cumberl'nd 

Nelson 

Scott 

Scott 

Tennessee.. 



helby 

Louisiana.. 

Adair 

'/'emjessec 
Garrard ... 
Missouri .. . 
Unknown. 
Tennessee.. 



Alabama .. 
Misf^ouri.... 

Georgia 

Rockcastle. 
Lincoln 



Rockcastle. 
Jefferson .. 
Jefferson .. 
Alabam 
Garrard .... 
Indian I .... 
Grayso-i.... 
^ayette... .. 
Fayette... .. 
Garrard... .. 
Garrard ... ,. 
Garra'-d . .. 

Oliio 

Nelson 

Illino'' ■ 

Jeffersoii.... 



1835 



183. 



1836 



1837 



1838 



l83fi 



Tim IvEKTUCKY SCHOOX TOR THE D^EAT. 



4'5 





Trade 


Deaftskss 


Deaf Rela- 
tives. 


Consan- 






Learned 
at sch-ooi. 


AliE. 

Cause 


Gl'IXITY OP 

PaKkhts. 


Re:marks. 



95 












96 












97...... 












98 












99 












100 
















102 












103 












104 












105 












106.. 












107 
























109 












110 












Ill 












112 
























114 












115 












116 










117 












118 












110 












l-'O 










1->l 












122 












123 












124 












l'>5 












1''6 












127 












128 












129 












irio 












181 












];!2 












133 












l:!4 
























136 












137 












138 












139 












140 












141 

























4^ 



Name-, 



Post Office 

Al>l>RESS. 



Cor?;TY OF 
Residence. 



AnMITT)!D 



Minor , Mary Jane 
Waggoner, Henry C 



A.dams, Mary 

Campbell-, Mary J. 
Orchard, Mary E. 
Proctor, John T.... 
Proctor, F'ebecca... 



143| Harris, Sxmua 
Ulljohnsou, E-niily 
145jMiller, Daniel .. 
1461 " Tlionaas., 
147 
US 

149 
15) 
15 
152 
153 

151 
155 
153 
157 
15S 
169 
160 
161 
162 
163 
164 
165 

166 
167 
16S 
169 
170 
17 

112 
173 
174 
175 
176 
177 
178 
179 
180 
181 

182 
183 



Arnirati, Antoine.... 

Donley, Allen D 

Doors, Benjamin F. 

Dann, Francis M 

Eendetson, Ci^lmb's 
" , James.... 

fC-emp, Mary Ann 

Philips, Michael 

" , Nancy.; 

" , Wil liam 

■Reward, "S irah Jane 
Whibteaior'e, Lewis 



Bledsoe, George Ann 

Blount, John 

Oozatt, Jordan D 

Drodelot, Leopold... 

Flint, W. H. H 

Williams, Andrew.. 



Williams, Calvin.. 
Auglen, Cha's. Van 
Anthony, William P 

Herst, S. S 

Peebles, E Iward J 

Rowe, Rachel 

S Tilth, Elizabeth 

Swori, George 

Wabster, Louisa 

Williams, Selah 



Lou\svill'? 



(j-rayson ] 1839 

Mis-i'ouri 
Tennessee ..I 



Owen 

Christiaii.. ..1 



Indiana.. 
Logan ... 
Indiana.. 
Logan ... 



1-840 



Louisiana.... 
Tc.miessee .... 

Logan 

Alabaina 

Mason 



Alabania. 
HardiTi ... 



1S41 



Lincoln..,. 
Tennessee 



Bourbon... 
Alabani'i' ■■■ 

Mercer 

Louisiana 
Oldham.... 
Knox 



184 



1843 



ICnox 

Mercer 

MissouTL 

Jefferson ... 
Crittenden. 

iLogan 

1 Oldham 

Kenton 

Madisofl ... 

Knox 



Clouts. Jacob 

Oirlette, Clara.. 



lS4|G'bbons, ElizabethJ 

ISSIHadson, Willis 

ISSlTon^s. Zeehariah 

187 K='.lly,,''Alexander D 

188 Miles, Mames 

lS9U{,o.ed, James 

l''3'RobRrts Francis A.. 



N. Caroli-na 
Louisville . . . (.Tefferson 

Boyle 

Clinton ....... 

Mississippi.. 
Scott 

?;he1bv 

Bath 

Alabama 



1844 



47 



Trade 
Learned 
AT School 



Deapenss 



Deaf Rela- 
tives. 



CON'-SAN- 
GUINITY Of 

Parents. 



A SITORT HISTDRT OF 



Si*, 



Post Office 
Addkess. 



OoUiVTY OP 

ResidexcE. 







-< 




Ad MITT 


'n 


CD 


r; 






M 

55 












64 1 









191 

192 

i93 
194 
195 
196 
197 
198 
199 
200 
201 
202 
203 
204 

205 
206 
207 
203 
209 
210 

211 
212 
213 
214 
215 
216 
217 
21.S 
219 
220 
221 

222 
223 
224 
225 
226 
227 
228 
229 
230 

231 
232 
233 
234 
235 
236 
237 



Wiley, Martha 

Beasley, William. 



Ballai-il, John P ... 
Clieatham, Marous 

Ellis, Squire D 

Gammon, Jolm 

" , Levi J 

Hudson, John W 

Marlaw, Benjamin.. 
Matlack, James B... 
Mc Caleb, Mary A... 

Miles, Ann 

" , Mary J 

Fatton, Mary S 



Ark&ns-Ai; ... 
Campbell . 

Madison ... 
Lauisiiina. 

Shelby 

Mercei 



Clinton.. 



Warren 
Logan .. 
Shelby... 



Atkerson, Mary E.. 
Lawson, John H.... 
Owens, Anderson. 
Wohner, John H.... 
Williams William. 
Youn^, Elizabeth., 



Achez, Desire , 

Boyd, Mary, 

Christopher, Th's H. 

Gore, John B 

Harris, William 

HoDbs, Martha M... 

Hailson, Joshua 

Kavanaugh, R. M.... 

Mason, Ann 

McQniddy, Martha 
Williams, Elisha 



HdrVey, John 

" , William.... 
Lawson, Thomas B. 
MeKir.ley. Robert.. 
Miller, Sallie Ann... 

Reed, William G 

Squires, Elizabeth.. 

" , Matthew F 
Thomas, Omar 



Tennesse 

Tennesee 
Washingt'n 

Mason 

Mercer 

Mississippi. 
Daviess 



Ivouisville 



Louisiana. 
Harrison . 
Alabama . . 

Hart 

Pulaski .... 
Hardin .... 
Clinton .... 
^la&a?na 

Foyle 

Jefferson 
'Hardin ... 



lAdair. 



Louisville 



Boone 

Pendleton 

Knox 

Jefferson .. 
Adair 



Achez, Eugenia .. 
A.nselm, Ame'ia... 
Daigle, Jean Baptist 

Fowler, John 

Grider, Margaret,.. 
Hat-dv, E<lward... 

" , Solomon M 
Kendall, T. F 



Boone 

Louisiana. 

Loitisiajia. 

Boone 

Clinton .... 
Losran 



1845 



1846 



1847 



1848 



1849 



1850 



Louisiana. 















G 

-g 


Trade 


Deafness 


Deaf Rela- i 
TivEs. ; 


CoNi3AN- 




:a 
m 


Learned 


Q ■■]>- 


GUINITY OF 


Remarks. 


AT School 


9- a 
G 1 3 

H 1 


PaBents. 





.222 
;223 
224 
.235 



:227 
.228 



230 

231 
:232 
:233 
234 
.235 
•236 
237 
238 



A SHORT HIBTORX 0? 



Nam-e. 



Post Office County of 
Address. Kesidei^ce. 



Admi/tted 



239 
240 
241 
242 



Malone, Etlenora... 

Moody, James 

(>ppenheinier,B'nois 

Pickett, Susan 

, William T... 



243] 

244 Pile, Thomas 
245|Roth, Albert J. 
241) 
247 
24b 
24b 
250 



, Pamelia 

Southards., Jane 

Snow, Julian 

Thomas, Robert ;A.. 
Trahant, Pameila... 



251 Buckley, Francis L 
252jcoffman, Emily F 
25b Dun nam, John M. T 

254 Gilkey, Benj. T 

255 Hale, Zabray J 

25b Harpole, Harmon.., 
257 Hoagland, Anna L. 
25b Lawson, Marsraret.. 

25ii 'VToore, Andrew 

26 Peterson. Samuel P 

261 Roark, Martha 

2bLtWoods, "WiTliara J... 
26c Chatainguer, P 



Harrison ... 

Madison 

U.iknown ... 
Kenton 



Washingt'n 
Louisiana... 

Rockcastle 

.lint on 

Marion 

Louisiana.,. 



264 
265 
266 
267 
268 
269 
270 
271 
27Z 
273 
274 
275 
276 
277 
27S 
27y 



ChataingTter. J S' ... 

, Kve Eloiee 
Dorse'', Thomas P. 

TTfiTe, Luke A 

Hill. Amanda Jane.. 

Holard. JTrausin 

Hotard. Octnva 

Tor.es. Arabelln 

King-. Robert H 

Redden. Iren'' 

RvTe, T.ucv S 

RvTe, T^lizabeth 

RvTe. .TohTi 

Sfpwart, Daniel 

Waltham, Tam<=s 

Yeager, John H 



Anderson... 

ILawrence 

[Louisiana... 

Mt.SterlingjivIontgom'y 

(Mercer 

Warren 

Lexington. .[Fayette 

Boone 

Todd 

Plarrison ... 

Hart 

Pendleton . 
Louisiana... 



1850 



Lexington.. 



.IKflox ... 
.IShelby.. 



■Rabcock. MaT'r........lLouisvilIe . jjeffersoii .. 

'[TJost^^ic. Jo^n Brlwin. 

|RnckTpv. .John C 

; /^arr Edwa^-d 

R<?taTorev. Beni 

.iFitcb, ToHez R... 

[Jones, Henry Lewisl 

(Kellam, Susan, 

iKnoth, :Mary Ann ... Louisville . 



Louisville .. 



280 
281 
282 
28J 
284 
2S5' 
2S( 
287 
28^ 

289iLipscomb, Pattie A[ 'Clark 



1851 



185-J 



Louisiana.^. 1852 
[ " ...I " 
1^- . r I . „.l " 

LMercer I " 

Butler I " 

ILouiMana. 



Union .... 
Fayette... 
Franklin.. 
Boone 



1853 



Logan 
Anderson. 
Frank Tin . 
.Teffr>rson . 

Lewis 

fireen | 

■"^avis I 

Jefferson ... 



.1 



15 
1 
9 
14 
12 
111? 
l(i () 
14 3 
108 
12 4 



18()0 
1857 
1857 
1858 
1854 
185f' 
185£ 
1851 
1861 
185S 



T:HB KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEA¥'. 



•c; 


Teaue 


Deafenss 


Deaf Rela- 
tives. 


CONSAN- 




w 
a 
s 


Leaened 
at scimol 


Q 

5 

CO 


B 


e UINITY OF 

Parents. 


Kemarks. 



Ris'g in ear 

Fever 

Ris' g in ear 

Ris'g- in ear 

Cold 

Ris'g in h'd 
Congenital 
Conn;enital 
Congenital 
Brain fever 
Unknown 
Infl't'n liead 
Congenital 

Congenital 

Congenital 

Dropsy 

Congenital 

Scarlet f'v'r 

Congenital 

Scarlet f'v'r 
Congenital 
Scarlet Tv'r 
Congenital 



Ris's in h'd 
Brain fever 
Measles 



Scarletf'v'r 

^leaslps 

Cnnscpnital 

]\Tenslps 

C.Vidin h'd 
Ris'g inEar 

Pever 

ongen ital 

' its 

Congenital 



10 

































■ • 





— 


























Two broS 










































"Po IVT.-. T f r. 




































1 Same 










D'f cou-iin 

oloLei Clcitll.. 




- 












1 on.ni'^ 












































































Sister 
















Semi-mute 
























Sec'dcou'ns 







£ SHORT HTBTOEy or 



a 




jPosT Office 
Address. 


County op 
Residence. 


Admitt'd 


CO 


Disc 


ts 
w 


Name. 


Dai 




M 

z 
73 


K 
to" 










H 




o 
t-" 


0* 



290 
291 
292 
293 
■294 
295 
296 
297 
298 
299 
300 
801 
302 

303 
304 
305 
306 
307 
308 
309 
310 
311 
312 
313 
314 
315 
316 
317 
318 
319 

320 
321 
322 
323 
324 
325 
326 
327 
328 
32S 

330 
331 
336 
33:1 
334 
335 

3:;6 

337 
338 
839 



Lyons, Susan Mar j-.. 

McGhee, M. D 

.Meunier, Barbara A 
Monroe, Greorge R.... 

Orni, William 

Pickett, Hariett A... 

Reynolds, W. G 

Rubarts, G. W......... 

Rusk Lemanthis 

Sandifer, R. A 

Sims, Beuna..... 

Smith. Susan..... 

VanHook, Lewis .. 



Galli more , Mar th a „ . 
Greenwood, Wm .J.. 

Hadley, Joshua 

Hambleton, Nancy .. 

" ,.Mary... 
Harbeson, Davis L.. 
Langsford, Ann M... 
Moore, Mary Jane.. 

" , Alfred P 

Morin, Sai'ah M 

Staib, Sophia 

Terry, Patsy S. 

" Sarah B 

Thompson, Rufus K 

Wilson, Jacob D. 

Young, Mildred A,.. 
Arrasmath, Adaline 



Hoagland, Joseph R 
, Theo. J... 

Lane, Joim.. 

Norton, William J... 

Philips, Isaiah, 

Reed, James H 

Reed, Mary Ann 

Richey, Chas.., 

Sparks, William H.. 
Wilhite, Thomas J.. 



Adams, Alexander... 
Bradford Elizabeth. 

Bradley. Ann M 

Drake, "Sarah F 

Gatliff, Green A.. 

Garth, John M 

Harris, Junis 

Hoagland, Sarah J. 

Johnson, Sarah 

Long, Morris T 

Resort. William 



Louisville. 



Covington 



Mercer 

Jetterson ... 

Hardin 

Taylor 

Hardin — 
Kenton... ... 

Mason „ 

Adair 

•Jefferson .... 

Oldham 

Jefferson ... 

iGrant 

Harrison .... 

Garrard 
lexas 



Breckiiir'ge 
Pireckinrge.. 

iPleming 

Spencer 

Laurell 

Laurel 

Pampbell 

Jefferson 

Logan 

Logan.... 

Alabama . 
Kenton ... 

Boyle 

Gallatin .. 



Gallatin 

Gallatin 

Kenton..... 

Butler 

Butler"... 

Franklin.... 
Franklin.... 
Hancock..,. 
Jessamine. 
Oldham 



?ulaski.... 

Bracken 

T,ircoln 

Trimble 

Knox 

Fayette 

Jessamine . 

Gallatin 

Bourbon 

ATadi«on 

Franklir 





1 ^ 

1 0 


Q 


1856' 


u 


1 ^ 


0 




i i. 


13 


3 




( ( 


14 


4 


1857 


u 


11 


6 


1^59' 


li 


12 


4 


1857 


u 


11 


8 


1862: 


It 


5 


5 


1868' 


u 


11 


7 


I860' 


Hr 


14 


I 


1854; 


tl 


12 


8 


1861 


It 


11- 


8 


1861 


it 


12 


8 


1861. 


1 RfkA 


18 


1 


1856' 


u 


15 


2.', 


185T 


(.1 


14 


5.', 


1860' 


19^7' 






107 


1 oOJ 


it 

4< 


15 1 


1855.' 


13!? 


1 RR9 
i oO^ 


u 


14 12 


I O'jO^ 


Irk- 


Ilt2 




i i 


24 


3i 




u 


12 


7 


1 "0 J' 


u 


17 


3 




11 


25 


1 


1855- 




13 


4 


1859) 


It 


14 


6 


1861 


ii 


9 


3 


185& 


tk 


23 


5 


1861 


18-55 


30 


4 


1859' 




28 


4 


1 859' 


li 


17 


7 




\t 


15 


7 


186;T- 


ii 


12 


4 


1859' 


a 


10 


7i 


1863- 


a 


8 


6 


1861 


u 


14 


6 


1861 


(( 


16 


6 


1860 




10 


6 


1862: 


185G 


12 


5 


1861 




8 


1 , 


1857 


( i 


10:7.5 


1864 


H 


16 


2 


1858 


t i 


11 


8 


1865 


I e 


1012 


1858 


n 


1?I6.'., 


1863 


t.t 


25l 


2-) 


1859 


1 1 


1217 (ises; 


C £ 


124 


1861 


cc 




8|il865 



THE TCENTUCTKT SCHOOX TOR THE DEAF. 



T-BADE 

Learned 

A-T Sc HOOL 



©EAFENSS 



Q 
> 
C3 



Deaf Rela- 
tives. 



Consan- 
guinity OF 
Parents. 



Remarks. 



Unknown... 
Ris'g in h'd 

Scrofula 

Worms 

Medicine ... 

Ris'g in h'd 

Congenital 

Unknown... 

Congenital 

Brain fever 

Unknown... 

Scarletfev'r 

Congenital 

Scar]etf''v'r 
Chilla&f'v'r 
Painin Ears 
Cono;'enital 



Unknown... 
Congenital 

Ris'ginEars 
Congenital 



Morphine... 
His'srinEars 
Congenital 



Scarletf'v'i' 
Unknown... 
Congenital 



flnrd fall... 
Ris'g inEa: 

Sarl't fev'r 
Convulsion 
Congenital 
Ris'g in h'd 
Ris'ginEars 
Con genital 
Coki in h'd_ 
Congenital 

u 

C'g'st'ePv'r 



Sister dear 



Two sters 



Fa.2bro.2sis 
Fa.2bro 2sis 



Fa .Un. sis, 
Fa'rUn.bro. 



Sister. 



A sister. 
Sister.... 



Sister&Bro, 



A SHORT HISTOTIY OF 















Kl 


Disc 


c 




Post Office 


County of 


Admitt'd 


CZl 


















Adi>ress. 


Residence. 


O 

> 




















c 
t-" 





•m 

342 
343 

344 
345 
a46 
34? 
348 
349 
350 
351 
352 
353 
354 
355 
353 
357 
358 
359 

350 

36 

362 

363 

364 

365 

;;63 

367 

36-; 

369 
370 
371 
372 
373 
374 
. 375 
376 
377 
378 
379 
380 



Riggen, Alice D.... 
Schoolfield, G. T., 
Terrel, James 



Davis^ Joseph 

jjoran, Jesse E 

jia wards, Martha A- 
ji:a wards, Mary M.. 
jcid wards, Cathnrin*^ 
£]dvvards, (Jelia A.., 

Jrtigdon, Ann H , 

aoagland, Jesse T 
rfoagiaiid, Jamos R 
ivavanaugh, Amelia 
-dcAuley, Malsinia.. 

Meri ifleid, Ellen 

Moorman, Marv C .. 
Parks, William' W.... 

Shaw, William 

vVbitehead, Wm 



Batterton, Joseph p 
B^iird, Septama A 
Birch, Thomas...... 

Brown, Isabella P. 
Duvall, James D.... 

Elkins, Mary A 

Elkins, Malvina...... 

Fletcher, Sterry.... 

Gar'iett, Mary 

Gatliflf, Sarah J 

Henderson, Mahala 

Line, Elizabeth 

Meunier, Napoleon.. 
Meunier, Edward... 

Perry, Ada 

Renaker. Jacob A 

Sparks, Mary Belle.. 
Spenner. Thomas H 

Thompson, Wm 

Whitmer, Elizabeth 
Wilson, Stephen B.. 



381 Adams, Geo. W 

382lCabHsh, Margaretfce 

SSSComlpy, Sarah J 

Gomley, Wm. D 

385lGavrliiipr, .Tames G.. 

386iHall, Ann E 

387j.Tnna Petev 

.388, T<[iriRlear, Tnhn 

•^SQ.Kinslear, Zorilda 



iMason .... 

Bracken 

Nelson,.. 



Mason 

Ark aubas ... 
Hancock .. 
Hancock .... 

Hancock 

Hancock 

Daviess 

Fayette 

Gallatin 

Garrard ...... 

Jessamine .. 

Lyon 

Hardin 

Daviess 

Franklin .... 
Clark 

Boyle „ 

Campbell... 

Meade 

Henry 

Henry 

Aladison..... 

Madison 

MrCracken 

Adair 

Knox 

Madison 

Gravson 

Hardin 

Hardin 

Campbell.... 

Madison 

Jessamine., 

Trieg: 

Bntler 

McLean 

Kenton 



Gnrrard .. 

Mason 

Garrnrd .. 
Gnrrard .. 

■HTRTiry 

"RonrHon.. 
TpfFprson 

Gvp.nt 

Grant 



1^53 


11 


5 


1862 




15 


4 


1860 


L i 


19 


4 


ISeO' 


1857 


10 


n 


186,> 


u 


14 


2 


18.i9 


1 ( 


29 


7 


]8(i4 


(,i 


25 


7 


18(34 


il 


24 


7 


1864 


1 ( 


11 


7 


1864 


ii 


19 


34 


1861 


<1 


9 


65 


1864 


u 


1<) 




1860 


(1 


l(i 


6 


186:i 


< i 


12 


6 


18()3- 


u 


11 


6 


1864 




13 


6.', 


1864 


(I 


19 


\l 


lf>59i 


(( 




I 


1859' 


1 1 




1 


ISSQ- 


1858' 


13 


I 


1859> 




11 


4 


1862 


U 


17 


3 


1862 




12 


3 


1861 




14 


3.', 


1862 


it 


10 


1.', 


1860 


ii 


19 


V. 


1860 


1.1 


<-) 


8 


IS67 


I i 


16 


1 


18.59' 


f ( 


11 


7 


1865" 


11 


17 


2 


I860' 


1 ( 


16 


6 


1864 


u 


18 


3 


1861 


\i 


11 


.> 


1862 


11 


11 


(> 


i><r.4 


11 


11 


7 


1866- 


11 


13 


1 


1860 


It 


25 


4 


1862 


11 


17 


() 


1864 




18 


3 


1861 




13 




1860 


1859 


13 


2 


1861 




21 


(i 


186(> 




12 


3.! 


1864 


6 i 


7 


6 


1865 


. ( ( 


17 


)2 


18()1 


ii 


11 


7 


1868 


I i 


11 


3 


1862 


t ( 


10 


() 


1866 




8 


6 


1866 



5:he kenttj-cky s-ohool por the deaf. 





Trade 


Deafness 


Deaf E-Ela- 

TIVES. 


CONSAN- . ' 




3 
w 


Leakned 

AT SCHOOi. 


Age. 

Cause 


GUlNITY OP 

PaKents. 


Resiarks. 



Uncertain.. 
Unknown... 
Congenital 

Unakown... 
fcjcai-ietlev'r 
Congeniial 



Ris'ginEars 
(Jongenital.. 



Fever 

C'd&ris' ear 
Uiiiiuown... 



Sore head... 
Unknown.,. 



Congenital 
Typii'dfv'i 
Congenital 

Fever 

Congenital 



Unknown ... 
Congenital.. 
R-is'g in h'd 
Congenital.. 

Lighting ... 
Coiitienita! 
Ris'g in h'd 
Cor. genital,. 

Fever... 

Conoeiiitul.. 

Fits. 

Cold in h'd 
Unknown... 

Uncertain .. 

Fits.. 

Congenital 

Infl' brain .. 
Ris'g inEar 

Spasms 

W'p'gco'gh 
Unknown... 



























3 sisters 






i-i 

£( 
(( 


















Many kins.. 








































. 











































































A brother... 


















Bro.&siste" 
< t 


















































Bro.&sister 

























































A SHORT HISTORY OF 



■A 

c 




Post Office 
Adbhess. 


County of 
Residence. 


AdMITT)!D 


w 




cs 

PS 


Name.. 


H o 
t- ' s 


w 
q_ 


O 

*I 



•^92iMazoe, Alice A. 
1593 JSletl', Sarah E.... 



894 
895 
898 
897 
398 

3y9 



Perry, Jane.. 

Perry, Mary 

Seibert, Jacob 

Sypert,: Heneretta. 
VVeiser, Julia Ann. 
W'liitton, William. 



400 
401 
402 
403 
401 
405 
408 
407 
458 
409 
410 
411 
412 
413 
414 
415 
416 
417 
418 
419 
420 

421 
422 
423 

421 
425 
423 
427 
423 
42J 



Ball , Oynthiana 

Church. Mollifi 

Collins, Sarah N 

Co inly, Louisa 

Cox, Jolm T 

Flint, Samuel 

Kusher, He i ir y M . . 

.Mann, Louisa 

Aloore, Churchwell. 
Qiiinn, Margarett... 

Kiordan, John , 

Rose. Andrew J 

Rose, Francis M 

Rose, Martha, A 

Hose, Wiley H 

Spencer, Amelia 

Stephens, Martha A 

Shuck, Cornelius 

Thomas, Charles P.. 
Tliomas, Middletor... 
Whitetaker, Jane... 



C. 



Johnson, Lewis 

Lncv, John 

Welch, John 

Dillion, MichaeL... 

'^'iddingfcon, J . L ^ 

Pfender, Carolina F 
Pfender, Henrietta.. 
Uoninson, Mai'y L... 
S'Tiith, John t- 



430 A.llen, Andrew J. 



431 
43,' 
453 
431 
435 
433 
437 
43"! 
439 



B^ard Emma 

Oarr. Canipbell 

Comby, Arshie 

^Tir^h, 'Jartha N.... 

'"rrief. Anton 

^I^ndren. Mars^aret. 

Tones, ^fir^inda 

Ltvmon,John M.... 
Lq.wson. Mn.i.-y A 



410l\rcAdams Jos. A. 



Logan 

Laurel 

Carrol 1 

Carroll 

Jefferson .... 
Christian.... 
Jfferson 
Campbell...- 



1859 



Lincoln 

Tennessee- 

Russell ■ 

Garrard .... 

Meade • 

Lincoln 

Tennessee.. 
Jefferson ... 
Woodlord 

Webster 

Bourbon.. ■• 
Marshall.... 
Marshall.... 
Marshall- 
Marshall-- 
Payette..-- 
Garrard 
Henry 
■Jefferson •• 

Nelson •• 

Pendleton 



1860 



Warren 

Kenton 

.Jefferson .. 

Garrard ... 

Shelby 

Campbell. 
Campbell. 

Hardin 

Henry 



Henderson 

Spencer 

Franklin .... 

Garrard 

Favette...-- 
McCracken 

Madison 

Snencer.. 

GraA'son.."-- 
Camnbell"- 
HaTison — 



1861 



1862 



12 
11 
10 
10 
16 
15 
18 
19 .'. 



24 
14 
12 
11 
13 
19 
92 
16 
12 

11 
14 

18 



1S63 



98 
11,8 

"f 

20(7 

nl4. 

16 4 

10 

15 

20 

10 

18 

14 

n 

12 



1870 
I8B7 
1867 
1864 



187(f 
18(iS 
1864 
1870 
1869 
1S70 



TEE KENTOCKY SCHOOL FOR THE BEAT. 







Deafejjss 












Trade 


Deaf Rela~ 


Consan- 






E) 


Learneb 


O '1 if' 


guinity OF 


Rehakks. 


AT School 


w 1 ; 


TIVES. 


Parents. ^ 







Unknown,.- 

Fever 

Congenital 



Spasms 

Scarlet t'v'r 
Uncertain .. 
Fever & fits 

Scarletf'v'r 

Ris'g in b'd 



Cold in ears 
Inll' brain.. 
Unknown..- 
Scarletf v'r 
Congenital 



A fit 

Congenital 



Cold 

Congenital 
Scarletf'V'r 



Congenital 

Brain fever 
Unknown.- 



Congenital 

Dropsy 

Fever 

Congenital 
Cold&fever 
Congenital 



Cold, 



Unknown... 
Congenital 

Measles 

Congenital 
Brain dis'... 
Exposure... 
Wh'p'gc'gh 
Congenital 



6 

15 

9 
18 



2i 



7 
12 









3sis.&2 co'n 




































































.. ^ 


.„ , 
































































^ 




















































































Brother 










































Bro.&sistei 











2; 

C! 



Post OfpicevCounty of 
ADiDKESs. Residence. 



Admjttjsd 





C2 






ai 


0 




P3 


X 

0 






■ tT 



44'; 



, America 

i'arvin, Jerusha E... 



443 Smith 
444 



Couch, Maggie 



445 

ilaiey, JNaiicy J , 



llammouds, Caleb J 



44y Hamrrsoiids, JamesE 

449 iiay, Fiancis. „. 

450 J-'SSser, Ceorge 

451 rsaatkamp, Joiiw 



454 
455 
456 
457 
45^ 
459 
460 
461 
462 
4153 
46, 
46", 
4(V 

46; 

4ti>- 
4(19 
470 
4 
4 

47a 
474 
475 
47t 
477 
478 
47il 



Louisville.. 



452 Anderson, Oliver B 
45;, ^arren, Virginia.... 
Bennett, Mary A.... 

Bennett, liiley 

Dohoney, Mary A.. 

Doyle, Mai-y F..„ 

Eddy, Mary 

Fulkerson, Ann..... 
Gray, Marshal B..., 
Grissom, Kitty A..., 
Grissom, Snsan P .. 
Hearn, Eleunor... 
Higdon, James M 

•Jones, Mary J 

Jones, John P 

Lovelace, James S.. 
Overstreet Jno. W 

Rush, ]\Lirtha E 

Rogers, RichardA., 
Thomas, Laura...... 

Whittaker, Leslie 0 



Has m, Mary E... 
Davis, lUahala J. 
Dolan, Patrick... 
Eakins, John J... 
Frank, Bertha. 
Gad bury, A. O 
Gadbury, Matilda.. 

480 Hickey, Catl erine.,. 

481 Jaggers. Louis P. 

482 Moore. Aunm^a C 
483 
48-! 

4s; 

48'. 
48 
48- 
48 
490 
491 



Simpson 

Campbell..„ 



Teunesse.' 

Lincoln 

Nicholas... 
Nicholas... 

Nelson 

.Jefferson . 
Jeflferson . 



London. 



1863 



Louisville.. 



Northent. Laura B.. 
•^stler, SuppT^rah B 

fierce, Ann E 

"himmer, TTcnrv M 
'^obinH "TV T^lizabeth 
«tPr)hetis,"'.Vil]iam G 

^urbpT', A. G T 

Wfillacf. Pmrices... 
^ook, Elizabeth F- 



London 



McLean .. 
Daviess... 
Aluhleub'rg 
Muhlejib'rg 

Adair..., 

Logan 

Jefferson 
Louisiana . 
11 arriscm .... 

Adair... 

Adair 

Franklin .... 

(iray son 

Laurel 

Hardin 

Pendleten .. 
Jessamine .. 
Jeferson...... 

Casey — 

Campbell .... 
Harrison ... 

Harrison .,, 
Jefferson 
Jeherson 
Henderson 
.) efferson „. 

u.aski 

Pulaski 

Hardin 

Hart 

Laurel 

Henry 

Kenton 

Jefferson 

Kenton , 

Scol t, 

Jefferson 
Pulaski... 

Grant 

Boone — 



1864 



16 3.; 1867 
27 



1865 



18 2 
12 4 



!18(i6' 
i 18(18 ■ 
i]8(i7 
11867- 
il^72-. 
1872' 
9 1873' 



12 5 
13 
153 
1] 

2 
14 7 
10 7 
3 
9 7 
103 
11 
11 

182 
U 
19 
14 
l(i 
13 
13 
10 



21 



4 

M 

6 
1 
7 
97 



10 7 
18 

145" 

12 8 

hS|l 

18l6 
195 
131 
19 3 
104 
10 4 
... 2 
1(1 3 
171 
32 3 

13 6 

14 3 



1870' 

18(i8' 

1808- 

1868- 

1868 

1873' 

1872". 

1868- 

1872-' 

1868.' 

18735 

1866- 

18(-i7 

1S71 

18G7 

1869 

1867 

1872 

1866 

1872.- 

1872 

1873- 



1873: 

1877 

1872: 

1875 

18(17 

1872- 

1871 

1866 

1869- 

1870- 

1872- 

18(18 

1869' 

1867' 

18(;!f 

1872 

18(19. 



T a s K E r u 0 fc f schdox pok the dbat. 



as 

■SI 


Teade 


DiiANFESS 


Deaf Rela- 


Cons A N- 






Leakneb 


O 1 > 


'GaiNITY 'OF 


Remarks. 


Atr School 


c 1 


tives. 


Parents. 

















443 
444 



445 ••• 

446 ■•' 

447 ••• 

448 ••- 

449 - 
4.?® ■■• 
451 ■•■ 



452 
453 
454 
455 
45 y 
■457' 
-45f< 
45^) 
4HII 
■461 
462 
-463 
■464 
-465 
■46K. 
-467 
•468' 
•46!) 
470 
•471 
472 



Congenita,! 
Brain I'uvei 

Scarlet f'v'^' 
nongeniu, 1 
Congenital.. 



Print'g 



■473 
■474 
•4 
476 
477 
47.^ 
479 
48f) 
481 
4S2 
483 
484 
•485 
486 
487 
■488 
489 
■490 
491 



Sickne 
..'Dngeiiii;.! 
3'v'r' siui.'h 

E't'g poirj'n 

Fever 

Congenital 

tl^s giah'd 
Conge al 
Scarlet f'v'r 
Congenital 

Cold in liM 
Conga iiital ■: 



C-g'fc'e t'v':, 
Ty'h'd f'v'r 
r!o ' in h'd 
Congen ' ■ 1 
Scarlet f'v'r 
Conge . al 

Ooug -"11! al 
U ikn ) .. 
Co' genU;il 
Scarlet f v'r 
S-arlefc f'v'r 
Congenital 
-"genital 
Comgonital 
■ Scro/"nli\ .... 
genitnl 



■arlet f'v'r 
-jRis'g in par 
• jUncpvtair. ... 
-iScarletfv'r 
■■|Catarr"h 
-jSivirlet f'v'r 
~|Scarleti ^'v'r 
" tScai'let f'v'r 



A. brother... 
Bro.toabove 



Nlan^' rel. 
Sis. to above' 



jMo&re I; t'n 



Brotherd'at 



Niece dear... 



.( Same 

'( Family 



Bro.sis.rel. 



Semi-mnte 



A SHORT HISTORY OF 



c 
ca 



Name.. 



Post Office 
; Address. 



County of 
Residence. 



Admitted 



492 
•J 93 
494 
495 
496 
497 
498, 
499 
500 
501 
502 
503 
504 
505 

506 
50 
508 
501) 
510 
511 
51^ 
513 
514 
515 
51( 
51^ 
518 
519 
52' 
521 
522 
523 
524 



Clinkinbeard, Sam'l 
Edmonson, John \V 

Finn, Agnes 0 

Fulton, Millard F... 
GrissoiJi, Samuel E.. 
Grissom, James O... 

Helm, Rebecca J 

McQ,uown, James C. 

Peter, Alice.. 

Rowlett, Peter E 

Schan, Antontz 

Squires, Doniphan.. 
Stranghar., Wm. H.. 
Vaughan, Mary A... 

Angel, Mary C 

Blount, AVm. J.. 

Book, George W...... 

Eager, Eliza 1 

Herndon, Annie W. 
Hinton, Wm. B..„. 
Hunter, Ethelbert.. 
Jones, Hamilton „..., 

Lyon, Maithew 

Mann, M:irgaret C. 
Morris, Elmwood... 
McAtec, Willard F. 

Paxton, J. W. 

Peed, Presley 

Rentz, Geo. W. 

Rupard, Nancy B 

Taliaferrs, Aug. G... 
Whacken, Isaac N .. 
Wilhartzo, Samuel .. 



Colunjbia. 



525 

S26 

527 

528 

529 

531 

.=^31 

532 

583 

534 



Pendleton .. 

lUaaison 

Wpeiicer 

Iventon 

Adair. 

Adair,. 

Shelby 

Jefl'erson .... 
Jefferson .... 
Calloway ..- 
Jelferson ..- 

Adair.. 

Oldham 

Garrard 



Lexington.. 



Carroll, Virgil P 

Claypool, Hester C. 
Ellistoii, Jame« H... 

Goff, Ann E 

Layton Elizabeth... 

Raum. Lfo.. 

Weiser, Alexander- 

Weisor, Pranric 

Williams, John R.. 
Word, Frank.... 



Montgom'y 
Spencer ., 
Lewis...... 

Owslt y ... 

Kenton 

Daviess 

Fayette 

Mississippi 
Hop kins .... 

Lincoln 

Jefferso)> ••• 

Hardin 

Green 

Gran t 

Jefferson ... 

Clark 

Hopkins 

Harrison ... 
Boyle... 



1867 



53.T Austin, Sarah, J 

53(iBottP, Jobr 

537'Burnham, Kitty W. 

538'BuFby. Jeff. D 

539| Gates, Ifene I 

S40|Harvey, Annie M 

541 Hughes, Robert 



Grayson 

Warren 

LincoJn 

Jptierf-on ... 
Woodford.. 

Kenton 

Jefferson ... 
Jefferson'.-. 

Barren... 

Campbell ... 

Boyle 

Bracken 

Logan 

Washingtn 
Webster.... 

Boone 

Fleming .... 



1868 



187G 



THE 'KENTTTCKY g-CHOOX ¥011 THE DEAf- 



^61 



f 


Trade 


Deafness 


Deaf Eela- 

TIVES. 


CONSAN- 






5 
w 


Learned 
at schooi- 


Cause 


Age. 


GUm-ITY OF 

PaEents. 


Remarks 





492 
•I93 
-194 
495 
■496 
497 
498 
499 
500 
501 
5U2 
503 
504 
505 



506 

507 

508 

509 

510 

511 

512 

513 

514 

515 

516 

517 

-518 

519 

52ii 

621 

522 

523 

524 



525 

526 

527 

528 

5291 . 

•530 

531 

532 

58:^ 

53^ 

535 
536 
537 
538 
539 
540 
■541 



Scarlet, f'v'r 
Congenital 
Cli'i iiiiiit'n 
Congeiiiial 
Congenital 
Congenital 
ricarietfv'r 
ricarlec f'v'r 
Spott'df'v'r 
Scarlet f'v'r 
Congenital 
Congenital 
Scaiiet f'v'r 
Congenital 

Congenital 
Congenita! 
Congenital. 
Unknown,.. 
Wh'p'gc'gh 
Ris'g in h'd 
Spott'df'v'r 
.Measles 
Brain fever 
Scarletf'v'r 
rain fever 
Infl' brain.. 
Congenital 
Scarletf v'r 
Scarlet f'v'r 
Congenital.. 
Earache...... 

Ris'g in h'd 
[Cold.... 

Use quini'e 

Fever 

Scrofula 

Brain fever 
Spott'df'v'r 
Congenital 
Congenital- 
Congenital 

Fever 

Diphtlieria 



Cor genital.. 

Congenita' 
Severe Cold 

Fever 

T?ls'g in ear 
Congenital 
'Congenital 

























































































Par.gr'dpar 














^ 


























































































































"( Family . 






















'i 


































1 



G 



Post Oti-FKE 

Al>DKESS. 



countv of 
Residence. 



Admitt'd 



73 



?i42|Knight, William. F 

543 L''iwrion, Joseph A.. 

544 Liscon, James 

545 Long', Josiab 
54t5 overCiOn,. Chas. Al. B 

547 Simmons^ Amos 

548 Smith, Henry J. 
549 
550 
551- 



Smith Ijucretia 
Singleton John R.... 
Weihartz Samuel.... 



552 Casey Patfick 

5)3 Day- John Milton, 

554 Grider, Rose A 

Hampton, Mary F 
M ai" V o y , Ma r y E m m a 
Hedgespeth, Julia A 

Hen-, Edward O 

Hillard, Mai-y 



000 

557 
558 

560 Johnson, William..., 

561 Knorr, Ohrisdne E.. 
5t)2 Mar low, Hiram B 
563 McC-allem, Geo. H 
504; McKee Margaret 
565 Whoora James G 
56(3 Scott Basil D...... 

5ti7 Armstrong' Pleasant 
51)8 i<Manary Lizzie O 
•■')i)9 Ganote Lucirida 
570 Grissom Benj. F 



571 



Harris, Jamesi W.. 



572 Harvey Jatie M... 

573 Haskins Mary J' 

574Howerton America. 

■"^"^ Kerney Charles 

'5'<M<.ev s Thomas D 

^7'JMed'ard John 

°^''^iiVtoriison .\nn L 

'^'^^Soott Sallip 

^^'^ Young Nancy R--. 



Mav.slick 



McLean 

Uauiptiell ... 
Keiaon ...... 

Edmonson.. 
Jetterson ... 
Edmonson.. 

Knox 

Knox 

Garrard 

Boyle... 



187" 



Frfinkfort.. 



Carroll ...... 

Daviess 

Clinton 

Hopkins... 

Boone 

La Rue 

Jefferson .. 
Warren..... 
(iarrard .. 

Kenton 

R.u.-^sell 

Jefferson ... 
Franklin .. 
Tennessee- 
Mason 



Louisville . 
Colunihia.. 



Louisville 
Mayslick . 



26'. 
10 3 

8 
18 
IS 
14 
1-2 6 



1871 



681iT?arr'ptt .Tames H.... 

582 Congleton John W..j 

5.«3 Davis El on a -J j 

584 Hqrt-uTirt Hobert F.. Louisville. 

585^lT<Vins John S ' 

580 Tohnson"' Alhert S....| Louisville. 
587 1 'v i 1 o' -> r ° Mar v ' 

588 K'r,1h Marv Louisville. 

589 Hqcehair Harriet A..| 

590 ^ T p, V7, h an ser Mary.. 

•"^SllPowell Victoria ' 



RuSsell 
Crittenden 
■'efferson ... 

A'lair 

Warren .... 

,\<lair ........ 

Christian ., 
Crittenden 

Union 

Warren 

Jefferson .. 

Hardin 

Mason 

|Mulilenl)*rg 

liJefferson 

iEstill 

Honkins ... 
. Jpflerson ... 
Cliristian... 
.1 .^ePerpon... 

"no tie... 

.I.Tefrerson ... 

.Owen 

.r'piitoii 

.iBath 



9 
9 
11 

11 
11 
13 
1 

9 

15 

111 



10 3 
14 3 

13|7 

lib 

111 13 
illlli 
il7l2 
11117 



1872.' 

1874: 

1878 
1872- 
1871 
1873- 
1877' 
1877' 
1878- 
1874 

1875- 
1875- 
1873- 
I87,"y 
1877' 
11875- 
11877' 
.'.11875- 
il874- 
1878- 
1874 
1874; 
187.S; 

187:? 

187& 



1872 



(23 
12 
13 

Il0 8 
ll-'4 

13 8 

12 H 

24 

14 

11 

12 

14 

13 

10 6 



1873 



11 
11 
11 

fl 
IC 

In 

112 



" il3 2.l 
'• 1115 
" il25 



1 87(v 
1875 
1877' 
1880 
1 S7(T 
1875- 
l,s8ty 
1875' 
,1877 

87.S; 
l«80' 

187;^ 

1878: 

uso 

1K7& 
1880 
1 880 
1880 
1 880 
1 S80 
187s 
187G 
1878 
1878 



THE "KENT-IKCKT SCH601. "FOTl THE DEATP. 

















Trade 


Deafness 


Deaf Rela- 
tives. 


Consan- 




■a 
w 


Learned 
AT School, 


Q 1 p> 

> ' Q ■ 
Ih . 

IS) 1 


guinity OF 
PaBent-s. 


Remarks, 



042 
543 
544 
543 
fi4t) 
•547 
■548 
549 
550 
551 

552 
553 
554 
555 



Priht'g 



•556 
557 
•55S 
559 
56(1 
■561 
■562 
•5ti3 
564 
•5H5 
•566 

507 
5()8 
■5()9 
5.7W 
■571 
■572 
573 
■574 
■575 
576 
-577 
■578 
579 
•580 



Og'st'v oli'lj 

UongeiiitaL. 

rypu'di'vr 

L'-oiigeiiital 

Uoageiiital 

Congenital.. 

Congenital. 

. ongeiiiiai. 

Sciirlet f'v'r 

Congenital. 

Billiousi' v'r 
Bfain fever 
Scarlet f'v'r 
old in h'd 
Congenital.. 
Cony:enital.. 
Spottedf'v'r 
Congenital.. 
Contrenital.. 
Ooiigential 

Quinine 

Hydr'phai's 
Si'.ottedf v'r 
Cnld in ears 
Congential,. 



... Bro.& 2sis. 



A brother. 



Sis.topr'd'g 



A sister. 



Cor\KPntial.. 
Spottedf'v'r 

Sickness 

Congeniial.. 
Congential.. 



eumoiiia 
Scarletf'vh- 
Brain fever 
Scarletfev'r 
■■Sickness.. 
ScR,ilfetfev'r 
Wh'p gc'gb 



Brother. 



581 
582 
583 

584 Print's 

58.- 
5Si 

58; 

■5S8 
•589 
■590 
.591 



Infl' 1)rnin.. 
Scarlptfev'r 
Brain fever 
Pneumonia 
f^ongenitnl 
Brain fever 

^Jr'arletfev'r 
Congenital 



Brothei-, 



Sister. 



Sister... 

Brothel". 

Sistet.... 



6'4 



A SHORT HISTCTRY ©f 

















Disc 


a 




Post Office 


County of 


Admitt 


'd 




3 




Date. 












Address. 


Residence. 


> 

Q 


q_ 

r" 


sT 



592 
593 
594 

595 
596 
597 
598 
599 
HOO 
6111 
b02 
61)? 
B04 
605 
(il)b 
607 
6 18 
6i)i) 
610 
611 
612 
613 
614 
615 



Reed , Annie 

Wh itehead, Albei t B 
Young, Ella 



W'mstown 



Grant. 
Adair. 
Bath... 



Bourne, Sarah J.... 
Chambers, Tbos..., 
Christman, Prank. 

Clark, Laura M 

Eaienegger, ilary E 
Fariner, Griseida., 

Hart, William S 

Hamilton, Mary 

Hughes, Mary F 

Hillard, Patrick 

Jones, Bettie 

Knorr, Mary 

Kremer, Ann M 

Martin, Kit-Lie A 

Miillins, Mary E 

McQuary,William J 

Osbore, Alonzo 

Powers, Clay W 

Richey, Robert..- 

Robinson, .lames A.. 
Sims, Fredrick C 



Louisville „ 



Jessamine.. 
o eueiouu 
oeuei'soii 
1'uiabii.i ... 
Jeueroon 
uoul oou. 

j^aLii.. _ 

IS.bUlOU .. 
jpiemiug. 
vv arreu.. 
uraves .. 

ivenion 

deiieisoii. 

onriBLiau ... 
liocKCastie 

jf uiasKi 

Greenup 

uowan 

Spencer 

Madison 

Jcioyle 



()16 Cochran, , t O., 
617 Fosdick, Cbas. p., 
ttlS Griffin, Chas . E.... 
619 Harris, Mattie J. 
621) Hennessy, Adaline E 

621 Humphrey ,Mary A 

622 Haggerty, Elizai3eth 

623 Layton, Ida 

624 Ryan, .John 

<i25 Sherlock, Catherine 

62ii Smitb, Lydia 

«"27|Smitti, Marv F 

6'28jSinith, James J 

''-■'1 rischendorf, Mary •• 

630|Thomas, Robert 

G31iTrinible, Chas D 

632 Washer, John R 

•'•^^l Winders, Brnz 



Louisville.. 



Louisville.. 



634j Anderson . Ida... 
635-Riack. Susan E.. 
636 
637 
H38 
63q 
64'i 



Dunn, Neveda L 

Funk, Thompson f< 
' ^vimsley. Samuel AV 

Hqrvev, Cirrie L 

Hoback, John" 

64rJefferies, (George W. 



Edmonson.. 
Jetferson 

Allen 

Simpson.. 
Jett'ersuii 
Garrard ., 
u ashiiigt'n 

Garrard 

Kenton 

Meade 

Allen 

Clay 

Clay 

Jelferson ... 

Boyd 

Logan 

Butler 

Todd 



Louisville.. 



Jefferson ... 

i,aure] 

Texas 

Jefferson ... 

Monroe 

Boone 

Nelson 

I Metcalfe 



XO ( 0 


107 




i i 


24: 


1 
2 


1874 


i ( 


11 


2 


1 87'v. 


1R74. 


15 


1 


1 S7R. 


1 1 


9 


8 




1 ( 


1317 


L 00 X 


it 


81 


1876- 




11 


4 


188i> 


U 


18 


4 


1878 


>( 


12 


8 


1882: 


ii 


9 


6 


1881 


u 


9 


4 


1879' 


u 




8 


1881 


iL 


ii 


8 


188S 


it 


1017 


1881 


1,1 


94 


1879- 


U 


10l8 


1882 


(< 


18' 






(1 


105 


1879' 


a 


18 


5 


1880 


(( 


12 


6 


1881 


(1 


14 


1 


1875- 


ii 


18 


4 


1879' 


i(. 




8 


1882; 


1875 


12 


7 


188S 


( ( 


19 


3 




£-( 


13:2.1 


187S 




129 


1884 


(( 


12 






ii 


10 8 


1884 


( ( 


10 


U 


1887 


U 


12 


8 


1883 


si 


16 


3 


1878 


( ( 


17 


5 


1879 


( ( 


15 






U 


12 


6 


1881 


(( 


10 


6 


1881 


(( 


9 


8 


188S 




9 


6 


1882 




13 


3 


1878 


i I 


22 








17 


7 


1882 


1876 


14 


6 






24 


1883 




16 


1 


1877 




g 


1 


1877 




18 


7 


1883 


(( 


,« 


8 


1885 




11 


1 


1877 


1 ( 


IC 


8 


1885 



THE KENTDtrKT S'CETOO'L 'FOB, "THE DBAiF. 



65 

















Tkade 


Dbaxpess 


Deaf Rela- 

■MVES. 


Gqnsan- , 




33 
SI 


Learne<i» 
AT School. 


ao S3 1 
P j ■ 1 


Parents, i 


Remahss. 



Geniieiiifca! 



Ris'g in eskT 
Congenital 
Measles ..„ 
Meningitis 
Congenital 

Erysipelas. j 

Brain fever! 

Congenital 
u 

Fever 

Congenital 

Fright 

Scarletfv'r 

Measles ' 

Siekne.ss — 

Congenital ; 

Medicin'e..,| 

Congenital 

Scrofula 

Unknown... 



^Teaslf'S 

Scrofula 
Congenital 

Rram fever 
Congenital 
Erysipelas 

Siclkness 

Scarletfv'r 
Congenita] 



ScarletrvV 
Tlis^e m ear 
Sr)ott''drv''r 
Brain fever 
Scarlet fy'r 

Unknown... 



DroiDSvbr'n 
Congen ita' 







^ 


" " 






" - 


...... 

..^ . . 


. •, 

Semi-mute 














Brother 


„ 




......... 






.,.,„^.„ , 


.^.-.r...-. ...-.„ 


, 




















, 


— 










S'veralco's 







































































































































































A SHORT HISTORX OS' 



Name. 



Post Office 
Address. 



County of 
Residence. 



Admitted 



64- 
643 
644 
645 
646 
647 
648 
64v) 
650 

651 
652 
65;: 
654 
655 
656 
657 
658 
659 
6S0 
6a I 
662 
66: 

6j4 

6,i5 

666 

66 

668 

669 



670 
671 
672 
673 
674 
675 
676 
677 
678 
679 
680 
6S1 
682 
603 
684 
685 
686 
687 
688 
689 
UPO 
691 
692 



Jefferies.John G 

Miller, Ettie 

O'Neal, James B 

Risk, Amanda F 

Scott, Charles 

Smith, Henry J.. 

Smith, Lucretia 

Shrout, George M. 
Striger, Lyda A„ 



jMetcalfe.. 

Bovvl'g Gr'njWarren ... 

Carroll ... 

Union City:Madisoi> 
Wiimore., 



Moorfield... 



Cook. George W 

Grimsley, Elias N.... 
Hagyara, Esther .T.. 

Huntex, Nora 

Howe, Edward F 

Humphreys, M 

Jefferies, Marietta... 

Jefieries, Louisa 

Lary, Simon 

Lary, Tottie 

Page, Terry 

Pender, George A.. 

Reed, Lena 

Robb, Naomi 

Rogex's, Jackson 

Unsell, Jerry 

Vire. Lavinia 

West, Elizabeth A.. 
Wilhoyte, Jacob L.. 

Abner, EflaeD. 



Wincliester 



Austerlitz 
Ansterlitz , 
< ilasgow.... 



Wiimore .. 

Sardis 

Garfield .... 



Brennan, Daniel 

Duncan, James 

Duncan, Robert E... 

Glore, Mary L 

Hall, Nannie 

Jeffreys, Martha 

Jeffreys, Paulina 

Kiiiard, Geo. B 

Kubel, Jacob 

Kilgore, Willie 

Loving, Ida 

Marlman, Sophia 

McShane, Mary 

Messhew, Chas'. A... 

O'Dowd, Martin 

Peterman, Wm 

Price, Annie D 

Roliinson, Mattie... 

Riley, James 

Tompkins, Wm. H.. 

Trapp, Geo. W 

Wade, Wm. R. 



Millwood ... 
Louisvill« .. 

B'eLickSpr 
Louisville .. 

Beards 

Beards... 

Frankfort... 
Crop'r'sDpt 
Greensburg 
Greensburg 
Poplar Flat 
Maysville... 

Hebron 

Monticello.. 

Ludlow 

Covington.. 
Woodville.. 

Dayton 

Center Pt.... 

Auburn 

Carlisle 

Princeton .. 
f ireen Hall.. 
Louisville .. 
Randolph... 



Jessamine. 

Knox 

Kufix 

Nicholas 

Fleming 



Davies-^ 

Monro? 

Clark 

Kenton 

McCracken 

Garrard 

Metcalfe 

l\fptralfe 

Pombon 

Bouibon 

Barren ...... 

McLean 

Jessamine.. 

]\Iason 

Breckenri'g 

Ballard 

Adair 

Grays on 

Jefferson ... 

Nicholas 

.Tpfferson ... 

Oldham 

Oldham 

Franklin ... 

Shelby 

Green 

Green 

j/cwis 

Mason 

Poone 

Wayne 

KertoTi , 

Kenton 

McCraoken 
'"'anipb ell.... 

^"^onroe 

~ og'^r. 



Nto^oI^s.. 

Cpldwell 

.Tnckson 

J fTprpon 

Metcalfe 



1876 



1877 



187J 



TEE KEI^TUCKY SCHOOX FOR THE DEAT. 



.2! 
c 



Trade 
Leakned 
AT School! 



Deanfess 



> 



Deav Rela- 
tives. 



Consan- 
guinity OF 
Parents. 



Remarks. 



642 
•fi43 
-644 
645 
■646 
-647 
648 
64!) 
■i)50 



Bkb'dg 



■651 
■652 
'653 
■654 
655 
'656 
657 
658 
65y 
660 
661 
662 
6b3 
664 
665 Print'g 
666 
667 
■668 
'669 Print 



Print'g 
Print's 



670 
671 
672 
67;} 
674 
h75 
676 
677 
678 
679 
6801 
681 
fi82 
6S3 
6S4 
685 
686 
■6^7 
6::8 
689 
6:^0 

i'.91IPrinb"g 
6i)2, 



Con.senital 
Meningitis.. 
Typh'df'v'-r 
Congenital 



Si-'Ott'df'v'r 
Brain fever 

Brain fever 
Congenital 

Brain fever 

Congenital 



Brain fever 
Ris'g in ear 
Unknown,, 

Congenital 
Wli'p'gc'gh 
Ris'g in ear 
Spoti'df'v'r 

Scarletfev'r 
mpninwitis.. 
Scarletfev'r 

meningitis.. 
Scrofula .... 
C.)nge:iita 1 



Scarletfev'r 
nieninijitis. 
Cong'^nital 
meninjritls.. 

Scarletfev'r 

Congenital 

B;ain fever 

Ris'g in ear 

Congenital 

Scrofula .... 

Couffenital 

Scarlette-ir'r 

meningitis.. 

Qongenital 



1 

i 

i'S 
u 

6 

6 

5 
3 
o 

] 

2 
2 



6 

5 ■ 

2 
3 
2 

i'i 



Bros. «& sis. 
















lsis.&3 co's 






































































Agister 
Bros. & sis. 

Tvfo sister 
A bro.&sis 












































2 brother... 
, 






















Lost 2 3^rs.v 














A brother... 




















4bros ASsis 
















.\ sister , ,. 


























































Lost 5 j-rs.v 



















A SHORT HISTORT ©y 



"-^ 
c 

'A 




jPosT Office 
I Adi>ress. 


pOUNTY OF 

JIesidekce. 

1 


'Admittkb 


*< 


o 


n 
w 




1 S I'? 


5 

X 

o 





795 

79ti 

797 

798 

799 

700 

701 

702 

703 

704 

706 

706 

707 

708 

709 

710 

711 

712 

713 

714 

715 

716 

717 

718 

tl9 

720 

721 

722 

723 

724 

725 

72b 

727 

728 

729 

730 

73! 

732 



7931 lien, ;Wm. H.. 

^94 Bare, Josephine 

Barnes, Nannie, 

Broadns, Roddie..,- 

Cobb, Silas W... 

Cock, Ally A 

Fitch, Wm. E„ 

Fraize, Rollie L 

Hord, Sarah H_, 

HotdyMary A.v 

Harris, Fred L......„ 

Hall, Everett E..„.. 
Hodge, Flora Bell... 

Jasper, Carrie 

Jarvis, John Q... — 

Jeffreys, Thomas 

Mavrrer, Fred...^. 

McClure, M„. 

Moore, Selinda 

Moore, John H — v.... 
Montgomery J H.. 

McGrew, Barilla 

MeCorm i ck , Edward 

Pence, Samuel 

Pennington ,Francis 
Pete rm an, Mary — 

Kay, James E„. 

Ray, William 

Rogers, Clias. L 

Shropshire, Susie.. 

Short. Isaac....,., 

Smith, Wra. S 

Smith, Tillie H 

TrfpTett, Mary 

Triplett, Sarah....... 

Thomas, James G.. 
Thomas, Elmira.... 

Werner, John 

Willis, minor E,.... 
Wilson, I)avid. 



Henderson 
Coalton...... 

Richmond ,. 
Indepeii'ee 
Crane Nest 

Ezel 

Ch'ottaFur 
McDaniels- 
DanTille...... 

DanTille...... 

Louisville .. 
BlackHawK 
Willard ...... 

Nicholasv'e 
Crane Ne3t 

Centre.. 

:N'eWjport.^..v 

Lonisa 

jLanrel.. 

Laurel ...... 

Pleas'tH ill 
X,eitch field.. 

Carlislp 

Campton ... 
Tomp'nsVe 
Centre Pt 
Stitht n.. 
(gtitliton.. 

GarfifeTd 

Lexingtort.. 

Martinsb'g 

Bruin 

Winchester 

GTenwood .. 

Glenwood .. 

MilTtown ... 

MiTTtown ... 

LonisvilTe .. 

Levee.... 

Louisville .. 



Hendeison 

Boyd 

Madison..... 
Kenton....... 

KnGx..» 

morgan ..... 

Carter ...... 

Breck'rge 
Boyle......... 



Jefferson 
Nicholas 

Carter 

Jessamin e 

Knox 

Metcalfe..... 
Campbell 
Lawrence... 
Lewis 



fiercer.... 
Grayson . 
Nicholas 
Wolfe..... 
iMonroe .. 



1879 



Hardin .. 



733 Ashbrook, Ada 

734Bobzin, Wm.. 

735 Bishop, Henry L 

736Canionn, FTophia 

737 c^ooksey. Benj. F... 

73Sj3T3nn, i)ennis. 

730 Tiystes, ArtaminCa... 

740 Gilbert, .Temmina... 

741 GilTifirt. Nancy 

742TTorton. Lnnetta 

743 .Teter, Evelina.... 

744 Kjrk, Jamei C 



BrecT<'^r'dg:e 
Payelte... 
"Monroe... 

Elliott 

Clark....... 

Lawrence... 

Adair , 



Blandville. 
Lonisvi'lle . 
Paducah.... 
Gv'1 Pwi oh 
Anpn«'sSp'p' 
Glenade ... 
Tancflptpr 
Crane Nest 

Prennh'vilf 

Rn'Td''s 

Cnlber ton 



.Teffprson ... 
TVrontgdm'y 
,Teffer80r. ... 

BnlTard 

Jefferson ... 
McCracken 

Bovle 

A Tien 

TTardin 

Gflrrn rrT 

Knox 



T.incoln 

RaUard ..... 
Boyd , 



J2|7 
10 9 
12 10 
11 

, 8 
19 



II 
9 

13 
ll|9 



THE KEimJCKY 8X53-001. 'POU THE DEAf. 



•g 


Trade \ 


Deafness 


Deaf Rela- 
tives. \ 


■Oonsan- ; 




W 1 

w 1 


Learned j 

AT SCHOOii 


Age. 
Cause 


guimty op ' 
Parents. 


RbMark-s-. 



«93 

694 

695 

695 

697 

«98 

699 

700 

701 

702 

703 

704 

705 

706 

707 

7X)8 

709 

710 

711 

712 

713 

714 

7J5 

716 

717 

718 

719 

720 

721 

722 

'723 

724 

725 

726 

727 

■728 

729 



Print's l-Pneumonia 
Cor.genital 



Print'g 



Print's 



Mumps ...... 

Congenital 

u 

Meningiti'Sv 
Congenital 
Ris'g in b'<i| 



Two cousin 



Sh'mkg 



Fever. 
Congetiit>al 
Meningitis..; 
Congenital ; 

Measles. 
Typh'df v'l 
Wh'p'gc'gh 

Congenital 

Pneumonia 

Congenital 

Fever 

Typh'df'V'r 
Wh'p'gc'gb 
Fever 



Garpfg 



Congrenital 
Scarlet f'v''r 
Brain fevef 
Congenital 
Memngitis.. 
Unknown... 
Congenital 



1| 
4 



Sh'mkg 

Print'g Sickness....^ 
Dropsy li'a 




733 
734 
■735 
736 
737 
73S 
739 
740 
741 
742 
734 
^44 



Garpt'g 



Carpt'g 



Meninsitis., 
Measles...... 

Congenital 
TTntoown 
Coneenital 
Pneumotiif 
Congenita 



iNleningitis. 
Cone:en tal 
Sand im-ea.i" 



Som* kin«. 



A co'usin..N.. 
A sister 



h. cousin.. 



Some kins.. 
Se"'4bro&8Ss 



\ Same..... 
] Family. 



k eoM'sin I 



Ist cousins 



Sejni-muto, 



Semt-mnte^ 



A brothers 
'\ Same.... 
iFawily. 

Twobrother 



Diefiatlnstv 
K'd'bycars, 



Cousins . 



(Same.... 

) Family. 

Sam-e.... 
] 't^'mily. 



Lost 5 yrs.. 



Ahro.&sis 



'S Same,... 
"I Family . 



At college.. 



ro 



A SHORT fflSTORr <W 



Post Office 
Ar>DitEss. 



cousty of 
Residence. 



Admitt'd 



745 Marshal. Alice B 

r4ti .VIoare, Joun F 

747 Perkins, James E... 

748 Parks, iViarel - 

749 Paschal,. Naiicy A^^ 
75'J Paschal, Victoria B. 

Schiiessier, Frank.., 

Spencer, Nancy 

8biles, .Archibald.., 

54 Twitty, James , 

55 We-.lding, Eli2a J.. 



751 
752 
753 



5iiBarth, Chas. W. 



757 

758 
759 
7(50 
7H1 
7ti2 
763 



Kasham, Sanford 

Boien, Susie 

Cull, John T 

L'am|>bell, George.., 

Cowies \Vm. H 

Duffle, Geo. B.... 

Herron, Rsuben.... 



"64 Hudson, Wm. A. 
7"'^ Johnson, Jennie. 



771 
772 



779 
780 
781 



SaiUeville ..' 

BJaine 

iVebbville .. 
Richmond.. 
Cro.ssland .. 
Ci ossland .. 
Louisville .. 
Moscow ..... 
Richardson 
Payne ville.. 
Waverly.. 

Cold Spring 
Hari'Odsb'g 



Scott 

Law rence 

Lawrence 

iriadison.... 

Calloway.. 

Calloway., 

Jetferson .. 

H'.ckman .. 

xMeade 

Meade 

Union 



BuenaVista Garrard 



766 Lary, Ophelia. 

767 iMarshall, James 

78 ' Marcossoii, Max, N.. 

69McCall. Darcia L 

77i) McCoy, Geo. W 

P irks, J'lseph 

pend'^rgras, Harvey 
73perrin, Thomas J 

774 Reed, ^rarfc n B 

775 Risk, Jessie A 

776 Rowe, Wm. F.... 

777Rudd, Le na 

78 Rogers. Philip 

Smith, John H 

Warner, Philip 

W'll'ace. Frank 

782W-11S, Ida H 

783 Wells. Lettie 

784 Wheeler, Joihna 



785 Wheeler, Samnel E Blaine 



786 Williams. Elln J 

787 Yarb rough, Mattie.. 

788lp.ooke-^.Marv E 

789^n'ish. Albert-, M 

790m^-i,sli. EHznbpth 

79IC ^man. Mnrv E 

702|'n^v:=,, GeoT-<T« B 

79:'>l'nndle .vMillie E 

794 iT^,i gland, Henry.. 
795lKverett, Lillian 



1880 



C ampbell.... 
Breckiiir'ge 



Millwood 
B'e LickSpr 

Butler 

LDuisville 

Dixon 

Albany .... 

Wingo 

Clintop.ville 
Sadievillp. 
Louisville 
London .... 
Frankfort 
Mays ^illf'.. 
Deatsvillp .. 
Falmouth.... 
Wm'stown.. 
Union City 
Olive Hill.!. 
Morgan field 

Garfiel.l 

NicholasvV 
Harrodsb'g 
PaechOrch. 
Pricevi'le... 
Prifcville... 
Blai ne 



Snott 

Sedalia 



GiayS(jn 

Nicholas 
Pendleton .. 
Jelferson .... 
VV' ebster..-.. 

Clinton 

Graves 

Bourbon 

Scott 

Jefferson ... 

Laniel 

Fran klin 

Mason.. 

Nelson 

Pendleton .. 

Grant 

Madison 

< 'arter 

T^nion 

Breckinr'ge 
Jessamine 
Mercer .... 
Lawrence. 

Hart 

"''nrt 

T awrence 
T n wrence 
Kenton .... 
Graves .... 



^Tflvfleld.... 

Butler 

T\in<rston .. 
Wilmore.... 

Paris 

Waco 

Cnvini^or 
Hi Seville 



Graves 

Pendloton 
"TarlisO'i .... 

"f^onrbon.... 
MarliRon ... 
TConton .... 
B irren — 



IS8I 



1882 



156 



THE "KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAE- 



71 



Trade 
Learned 

AT iSCHOOl. 



Deafis'ess 



o 



Deaf Kela- 

TIVBS. 



Consan- 
guinity OF 
PaBents. 



745 
746 
747 
748 
749 
750 
751 
752 



75 



755 



Print'g 



Print'g 



Carpt'g 
54Sh'mkg 



7o7 

758 

759 Bkb'd'j 
CarF>t's 



7(il> 
761 
762 
7lio 
7H-i 
765 
766 
766 
76 
708 
769 
779 
771 
772 
773 
774 
775 
776 



Print'g 
Carp b'jj 



Congenital 

Brain fever 
Congential.. 

Sca-rle.t f'v'r 
Quinine .. 
Brain fever 
Congenital.. 



75H Carpt'g -Congenital 

Fever 

iVIeiiingitiis 

Cold 

Congeniial. 
Conjrenital. 
Aieningitis.. 
Rs'u' in ear 

Cold 

Wh'p'gc'gh 
Congenital.. 
Congenital- 
Scarlet f'v'T 
Scarletf'v'T 

Fever 

Brain fever«; 
Scarlet t'v 
Spott'df'v'r 
Congenita].. 

Sinkness 

Diphtheria 
Coiigenifal.. 



Print'g 



Print'g 



Sh'mkg 



77^ 

'^^iCarpt'k 
i^^.iPrint'g 

783! 

s 

786 
787 



Meriiniritis.. 
TJnkiiown 
Brain fever 
Congenital. 



12 



A bro.& sis. 



A bro.& sis. 



Two sisters 
Two sisters 



.\ cousin. 



Two uncles 



Abro.&.si 
Two sisters 



Abro.&2sis 
A sister 



Twobrother 
Twobrother 



7R8 
89 Carpt' 
790 
791 

702 Print'g 
Sii'in 



793 
791 
7t5 



tgO 



Fever....... 

"Unknown. 

Congenital.. 



.1 brother. 



\ Same 

'I Family.. 
j Same.... 
'I Family 



Ris'g in ear 
Quinine...... 

ongenital .. 
Ris'g in h'd.. 
Congeuital - 



A. brother. 



A brother. 



Remarks. 



Lost 2 'yts>. 



Lost 1 yr.... 



Semt-mnte. 



Lost 1 yr ... 



Lost 1 yr..., 
ost 1 yr... 



Lost 1 yr... 



iK'dbv cnrs. 



A SHOOT HISTORY OT 



■A 

<5 



!PosT Office 

Al>I>BESS. 



County of 
ResbdencE. 



Admitt'd 



796 
797 
798 
799 
800 
801 
802 
803 
804 
805 
806 
807 
808 
809 
810 
811 



Felttnan^ Charles... 

Frank; Wm. E 

Gorman, Maggie 

Huhaplirej, Haliie.. 

Kaletch, frank 

Litton J James 

l>unsford, Mary B,., 
Alattbews, Ciias. VV 
Meadows, James W., 
Morris, Luiher W,„ 
Rawlings, Mary E... 

See, Wakefield 

Sullivan, Mary D. 

W'aits, David 

Wheeler, Dorcas.. 
Young, Baxter T... 



81 

813 

814 

81& 

816 

8-17 

818 

819 

820 

831 



iC'Swington.. 
Caneyville.. 
BovvlgGr'n 
Wicklifife ... 
Lcvelac'v'e 
Hnnt'ngton 
Webbville- 

Frances 

De Bard 

Cobb,Stat'n 
Pamowth... 
gpg 

WhiteMills 
Polsgrove . 

Blaine 

CentralCity 



823 
824 
825 
826 
827 
828 
829 
830 
8:U 
832 
V,X\ 
634 
835 



Andy, Theresa., 
Baugh, James... 
Baugh, Minnie.. 
Baugh, Mary... 

Baugh, Wm 

Beagle, Carrie... 
Buchanan, Ohas. W 
Crawford, John T.., 
Deane, Robert L 
Edelen, Walter.. 
Everrett, Clarence... 

Jeffreys, Benj 

Madd^x, Mary Bell 

Martin, Letti'e 

Mpshew, Mary E 

McFadden, Thos. J 

Parker. Wm. L 

Reed, John 

Roed, Lacy 

Sullivan,Flora Belle 

Whitney, Harry 

Williams, Elon 

Wrighgt, Jack A 

Yocura, Mary 



Louisville 
Faubusli.... 



836 

8H7 

838 

839 

840 

841 

842 

84 

844 

845 

846 



Grant,,, 
HazelGre'n 
Madisonv'e 
West Clifty 
Sprinoffield.. 
Hiseville .... 

Tliurlow 

Eminence... 

Glasgow 

Woodville .. 
EarlingtoTi 
Upton ville.. 
Sanders 
Wm'stovpn.. 
White Mills 
Lonisville,',. 

Eubank? 

Be'chGrove 
Locust........ 



Crain, Wm. H 

Hauer, Maiigie 

Keenon, Tjzzie 

Laffbn. Edward 

Li'^t, John S. C 

Moore, Richard L.. 
Moore. Sallia Belle 

"Vinholson. Chas 

Pq.sohal. MpfiTgie.... 

Petri, f^p'"*- W 

Reed. William K.... 



Kenton .,. 
Grayson.. 
Warren,,, 
Ballard ,.. 
Ballard ,„ 
W. Virginia 
Lawrence . 
Crittenden 

Carter 

iCaldwelU. 
Pendletom .. 

Powell 

Hardin 

Franklin.. 
Lawrence 
Muhlenb'rg 

Jelferson ... 

Pulaski 

Pulaski 

jPulaski 

Pulaski 

Boone 

Wolfe 

Hopki ns 

Grays oti'..- 
Washngt n. 

Barreimi 

Green • 

Henry • 

Barren • 

McCrPcken 
Hopkins .... 

Hardin 

Carroll 

Grant 

Hardin .. ,. 
Jefferson ... 

Pulaski 

McLean .... 
Carroll 



1881i 



May town ,.. 



Harrodsb'g 
flt. Charles 

Helena 

London 



Covington.. 
Crossland.. 

Sfixtoii 

Wilmnre 



Morgan 

Kenton 

Mercer 

Hopkins ,.. 

Mason 

T.aurel 

Laurel 

Kenton 

Calloway .. 
Whitley ... 
Jessamine 



1883 



1884 



TEE ICENTUCKT SCHOOL FOU THE TTEAP. 



T8 



2! 


Trade 


Deanfess 


Deaf Rela- 
tives. 


Cons AN- ' 




=a 

S=) 
7) 


Learned 
AT School 




guinity of^ 
Parents. 

1 


Remarks. 



'■796 
797 
798 
799' 
-800 
•■801 
802 
803 
804 
805 
806 
807 
808 
809 
810' 
811 



Print'g 



Garpt'g 
Carpfg 



Carpfc 
i^h'mkg 



Sh'mkg 

Caipt'g 
Sh'mkg 



812 
:S13 

•814; 

:815 
816 

317 
818 
•819 
820 
■821 
S22 
^823 
824 
825' 
826 

'■S2H Pi'int'g 

:S29 
830 
;83i 
832 
:833 
634 
835 



Print'g 



Congenital 



Brain fever 
Meningitis 
Congenital 
Cold in h'd 
Congenital 

u 

Fever 

Congenital. 

u 

Comgential 

Measles 

Congenital 



Congenital 
injury 



Cold in h'd 

A fall 

Brain fever 

Injury 

Congenital 
Pnralysis .„ 
Congenital 



:836 
837, 
838; 
839 
840^ 
841' 
84--'i 
84". 
84.J; 
.-5451 
846i 



sh'mkg, 
Carpt'g: 



Carpt'jr 



'Scarlet I'v'r 
Brain fever 
Conge-iital 
Brain fever 

Congenital 
Unknown... 
Congenital 



TJiiknown ... 
Con genital 

Fever 

Congenital 



2i 









Two sisters 


















Los-t 1 yr... 















•Los-t 4 yrs. 
" 8 " 
" 3 " 
'* 1 " 
































Twobrother 

Two sisters 
• 












Lost 3 yr.... 


2bros & sis.. 

V ^^uii y .... 




















XJDOi^ 1 VI .... 










Lost 5 yr...* 










Lost 4 yr 


3bros& 2sis., 




Lost 1 yr.... 






« 


A brother 


















Par'ts&rel' 










Sis.& cou'n 




















































S Same 






i! Family 












Two sisters 
Aoousin 

















SFORT .HIBTOKl OF 



'A 



Name. 



Post Office 
Address. 



County of 
KssiDJiNeis 



Admittk.d 



847 Ritchey, Robert. 
g4K Young, RJary L. 



S49 

850 

851 

852 

858 

854 

855 

856 

857 

858 

859 

860 

86 

86: 

,S63 

S64 

865 



S67 
868 
869 
870 
871 
872 
873 
874 
875 
876 
877 
878 
879 
880 
881 
882 
883 
884 
885, 
886 

887 
888 
889 
8901 
891 
892 
893 
S94 
895! 
896 



Owensboro. DavietrS 

CentralCity Mublenb'rg 



Gates, Elizabeth 

DlcU, James 

Eden, Chas 

Etnridge.Mary 

Goodin, James 

Goodin, VVni.. 

Jarvis, Samuel 

Long, Wamie 

Martin, Robert 

Moack, Celia 

Moack, Katie 

Ott, Henry 

Parris, Milly 

Pool, Mary E 

Privett, Nannie 

Reading, John 

Rudolpli, Harvey... 
Stadtlander, Susie. 



Bishop, Thomas... 

Bryant, Annie 

Cobb, James 

Doyle, Mary 

Goostry, Samuel.. 
Maschinot, John.. 
Mclntire, Wm...... 

Meador, Vitnla 

Meadows, Wm 

Moack* Annie 

Norris, Ida 

Prewitt, Nancy... 
Ruggles, Annie. 

Rnst. Wm. L 

Sheffer, Thornley... 

Steidel, Julia 

Watson, Annie 

Williams, Jane 

Yancpy, Lurissa 

Yowell, Annie 



Agee, Ida 

Agee, Ollie 

Ballard, Dick 

Bastin, Willie 

Blackburn, Elizjv 

Blackburn, Geo 

Blackburn, Mary.... 

Cummins, Ollie 

Connor. Sophronia. 
Davis, Charles B.... 



Sebree... 

Waterloo .. 

8prout 

High Grove 

Corbin 

Corbin 

Crane Nest 

Newport 

Lusby'sMill 
Louisville .. 
Louisville... 
Falmouth ... 
CrabOrch'd 
McDaniels.. 
Pittsburgh.. 
Louisville... 

Massack 

Covington.. 

Hardin sb'g 
New Hope.. 
Slaughterv' 

Wilmore 

Brooks 

Day1 on 

Brandenb'g 

(Tarfleld 

Gilbprts Cr. 
Louisville .. 
I\Tarrowbo'p 

Ziza 

Covington.. 

Spears 

Corydon 

Newport 

Louisville .. 
PharonGrf- 
Hopkinsv'p 
Plutitonville 

Ruthton 

Ruthton 

Loretto 

Maywood... 

Melber 

Melber 

Walton 

Antioch 

Rowena 

BearWal'w 



Webster 

Pulaski 

Nicholas ... 

'^elsor. 

Whitley 

Whitney 

Knox 

Campbell ... 

Owen , 

Jfterson 

Jefferson ... 
Pendleton.. 

Lincoln 

Breck'r'ge.. 

Laurel 

Jefferson ... 
McCracken 
Kenton 

Breckenri'g 

Nelson 

Webster 

Jessamine.. 

Bullitt 

Campbell .... 

meade 

Breckinr'ge 

Lincoln 

Jelfersoii ... 
Cumberla'd 

Whitley 

Kenton 

Jessamine .. 
Henderson 
Campbell .. 
.Tefferson ... 

Todd 

Christian .... 
Lincoln 



Madison 

jMadison 

Marion 

Lincoln 

JlcCracken 
McCracken 

Boone 

Harrison ... 

Russell 

Barren 



1884 


10 


5 


1889^ 




10 


7 


1891 


1885 


1 ^ 


7 






16 


7 


189"^' 




11 








12 


7 




( 1 


13 


5 


1892; 




n 


5 


1892'. 




9 


7 




" 


10 


8 






9 


8 


1892- 


u 


12 


7 


1892 




23 


1 


18t<tt' 




13 


7 


I892. 




10 


7 






15 


^ ' 




( i 


ll) 






.( 


11 


7 




t i 


12 


7 




t i 


q 


6 


1892 


1 RSft 




1 


±co i 


( < 


14 


5 






i. / 


6 


loy^ 


il 


11 


6 




" 


12 


1 


1887 




11 




1888- 


il 


17 


6 


IS92: 


u 


15 


1 


1887 


i I 


14 


6 




<( 


16 


i 


1887 


1 < 


11 


5 




( < 


28 


3 




t i 


11 


6 






1 1 

1 1 


■z 


1 cofy 


1 1 


1 1 


6 




1 ' 


1(1 


1 


1887 




16 


D 


IS92: 


tt 


21 


2 


',888 




15 


5 


189i 




10 


b 




1887 


10 


6 






8 


6 




It 


10 


5 




n 


13 


4 




1 1 


23 




1889 


u 


14 


2 


188f^ 


( 1 

t c 


14 


}^ 


1887 


It 


8 
11 


6 
1 


1888 


u 


11 


9 





THE KENTUCKr SCHOOL FOR THE DB'AT. 



To 





Trabe 


DfiAiNFEiiS 


Dea'F Rela- 
tives. 


CoNSAN- 




•51 
■» 


Leauned 
AT School 


? 1 > 

CO r 


guinitv of 
Parents. 


Remarks. 



847 Congenital 

S48 



849 
8oO 
851 
.8.i2 
.8.33 
834 
855 
856 
.'857 
■'858 
•859 
.■8130 
■861 

■mi 

.863 
■864 
S65 

• 8613 

867 
-S6S 
:869 
.■87(1 
.871 

■ 87;-J 
.874 
.875 
.■87(j 
•877 

■ 878 
■875-' 
■■880 
?-^81 
^88'.' 
-•88:; 
.-SS^I 
.■885 
-^8l> 

■■387 
«88 
■'88' • 
•890 
.■B91 
.si)2 

■■%m 

:894 
:893 
:99iv 



Sb'mkg 
CiU'pt'g 



Sii'mkg 



Print'g 



Ris'g inh'd 
u 

Sore throat 
Wh'p'gc'gh 
Coiigenital 



Scarletf'v'r 
Congenital 

C ( 

( (. 
' ( 
( I 

Meningitis 

Wh'p'gc'gh 

Measle.s 

Congenita'! 
Ris'j; in ear 
Brain fever 
ung fevei 
I^nkiiown... 
Congenital 

Fever 

Soarletl'v 'i 
Congenital 
Unknown... 

FeveT 

Congenital 

Risings 

Scai-let ''v'r 



Fever.... 

Unknown ... 
Scarier fver 

Congenital 



Rvysipelas 
Congenital 

Unknown . 

Civngenita.l 

Fever. 



... A bro.&sis 
Asister 



( Same... 

\ Family 
Abro .& con 
Pari&bro 



( Same.... 
'^} Family. 



A cousin. 



A cousin.. 



3 Sisters„ 



Mother . 



i Same 

I Family... 
A brother .. 



'\ Same.... 
/ Family. 



Sis, & rel's. 



t& jt SHORT HISTORY ©F 



2; 
S 



Name. 



jPosT Office County of 
i Address. IResidbnce 



Admittkd 



»y7 

«98 
89h 
900 
901 
902 
903 
904 
905 
906 
907 
908 
909 
910 

911 

912 

913 
914 
915 
916 
917 
918 
919 
920 
921 
922 

923 
924 
9-Jo 
926 
927 
928 
929 
930 
931 
932 
933 
934 
936 
936 
937 
938 
939 
940 
841 
942 
943 
944 
945 



Greathouse, Thomas 

Hay, Samuel 

Karnes, Minnie.. 
Link, Louise ........ 

Long, Murtie 

iMarlett, Minnie.., 
Motley, Oliver T., 
Neville, G. Vaughan 
Nicholson, Ross.. 

Norris, Carrie 

Overton, Valler B... 
Poulter, Proneta. 

Senn, Julius 

Wathan,, Kate..... 

Tyler, Martha 

Zahn, Robert 



Ackman, Isaac. 
Ballard, Caleb . 
Brown, Fannie. 

Burns, Lulu 

Duflot, August. 
Groom, Oliver.. 

Long, Alva.. 

Neafus, George A... 
Renner, George.. 
Swart, Emma 

Adams, Lura 

Ades, Harris....... 

Anderson, Willie 
Ausdenmore, Emily 

Barnes, John 

Brewsaugh, Arthur 
Brewsaugh, Willie.. 
Engleman, Bessie.. 
Faller, Charles....... 

Fryman, Elias 

Fryman, George.... 
Gftliringer, August. 

Ison, Job.... 

Lakes, James.. 

Lambert, George.... 

Medley, Emma 

Moore, Elmer. 

Morrison, Jackson., 

Murphy, David 

Osborn, Willie. 

^resslev, Chas 

^mith, R. v.. 

Yarbofotigh, John.. 



Owensboro 
Bi'w'sXRd 
Briensburg 
Ottenheim 
Roweua .... 
CarroUton .. 
Edenton.. 
Louisville... 
Shreveport 
Marro'Done 
Frankfort.,. 
Toddspoint 
Louisville .. 

Custer.. 

Williaiiibrg 
Louisville... 

Mason 

Holy Cross., 

Akron 

Hillsboro ... 

Mavfield 

Wickliffe ... 

Newport 

Helena 

London 

Boulder 



Preaeh'vile 
Louisville . 

Oakville 

Louisville .. 

Nancy 

Robertson ., 
Robertson „ 
Shelby City 

Cadi z 

SvlvanDell 
SylvanDell 

Ashland 

Whitesburg 
Drip Roclc .. 

Cinder 

Grahnmpt'ii 

^London 

Hodgf^ville 
Fish Trap.. 

Pittman 

Free Union 
tTnknown... 
Free Union 



iDaviess .. 
|Clinton... 
Marshall- 
Lincoln-' 
Russsell- 
Carroll .-• 
Aiadison ■ 
J etiersou 
Louisiana... 
Cumberla'd 
Franklin. 
Shelby ... 
Jeflersop .... 
Breck'r'd 
Whitley .. 
Jefferson 



Grant.. 

Marion .... 

Meade ...... 

Fleeming.. 
Graves ... 
Ballard .... 

Campbell . 
Montana... 

Laurel 

Montana... 



946|Allen,Rosetta ICarrollton.. Carroll ISW 



Lincoln... 
Jetterson 

Logan ^ 

Jetterson .... 
Pulaski ... 
Harrison .... 
Harrison ... 

Lincoln 

Trig-. 

Harrison ... 
Harrison .... 

Boyd 

Leieher 

Jackson 

T>ock Castle 

Me;)de 

Laurel 

T,aRue 

Pike 

Taylor 

Webster 

TTnknown... 
Webster 



1887- 



1889 



10 


1 


188H- 


1-^ 


5 




12 


5 




11 


1 


l8yC' 


10 


6 




10 


2 


1889' 


15 


5 


1892- 


11 


3 


1892'' 


8 


D 






c 

a 




11 


6 




10 


6 




20 


2 


1890' 


15 


i 


1888' 


1-2 


6 






c 
0 




q 


0 




1 1 

± L 






-1 1 
X 1 


0 




-1 1 
1 J 


4 


1892.; 


1 0 


5 




Q 


5 




1 1 

lA- 


r 

0 






5 




id 


2 


1890) 




4 




12 


0 


1 891, 


15 










9 












13 


0 




.11 


A 

4 




14 


4 


....... 


9 


4 




19 


I 


r89CP 


] 9 


2 


1891. 


17 


2 


1891. 


9 


4 




23 


1 


1890' 


11 


3 


1892 


8 


4 




16 


4 




i 8 


4 




12 


2 




16 


2 


1891 


11 


4 




1!^ 


2 


1891. 


21 








4 




13 







THE KENTirCKY SCHOOL TOK THE DEAF. 



77 



■<=. 

•S 


Trade 


Deafness 


Deaf Rela- ! 
tives. 


CONSAN- ' 




■ra 

■50 


Leakned 
at bchooj 


Age. 

Cause 


guinity of 
Parents. 


Remarks 



Print'g 



B'kkpg 



Paralysis ... 
Congenital 
Ris'g in h'li 
Congenital 

Scrofula 

Brain fever 
Congenital 
Int'm'tf'v'r 
Malarial I'r 

Injury 

Unknown .. 
Quinine ..... 
CoTigeni tal 



Print '.g 
Sh'mkg^ 



Print'g 
Sh'mkg 
Print'g 

Sh'mkg; 



«2S 
y24 
;925 

mi 

■,q2.s 
■929 
■93u 
■931 

■9:i3 
:934 
93o 
;93H 
:937 
«:-'8 
989 
9411 
941 
942 
943 
:944 
■945 

■946 



Print'g 
Carpt'g*; 



Print' 



Sh'mkg 
Carpt'g 
Sh'mkg, 



2 



Scarletfev'r 
Hongenital 

Typh'dfv'r 
Congenital 



Wh'p'gc'gh 
Meningitis 
Congenital 



Conwenti'al 
Cnnviil sioii 
Rs'gr in ear 
Cong^enital 



• 1 



Print 'g 



■h'lTikg 



JVvpr 

Oil in ear.. 
TMeninq-itif) 
Scarletf'v'r 
Congenital 



Brain fever 
Cofiigential 



"Unknown. 



Unknown 



9.'> 



S'v'l ro's 























. .-, 
























Ati COll6g6.. 


Sister 










Sister, . 




























































3 cousin s . 
Pii'ts & si. 






























































Z cousins ... 
Abru. &co's 










A brother,.. 

>•< 












































P'ts"bro. sis. 














































Til. d at liisl 



A SHORT HISTOKT QJ 







Post Office 


C!oHNTY OF 


itt'ij 


y< 

CO 


5 
c 








V. 

7; 












a 1^ 







Boarmaii, Fannie... 

Brown John 

(■j;a\vlord, Jitta 

Uiuguid, itot>ei't 

i)UlloC, GeOrf.;e 

Dankley, Bessie .... 
l''arnsvv(.>rtti, A'illie 
Hatfield, 'Lho^nas .. 

Hovious, Minnie 

Jones, .\lildon 

ivihun.-'i, John 

Lernabter, Jess 

.ileiin i cjr, Mary 

Ottie 

.Miller, Milton 

.Moore, Jesse 

Phillips, Grace 

Q'ieei5, John 

E-iley, Sallie 

Snapp, Willie 

Toomey, Willie.. 

AVheeler, Wm.G.. .. 

Whirl, Britten 

Williams, Benard.... 



Sunora [ 

White Oak 

Grayson 

.\1 n rray 

Maytield 

Hearn 

Bardslovvn.. 
'(Joal Ru 

IKni-fley 

jFrenclili 'rg 
Louisville .. 

I Flat Gap 

Moreland„. 



Allen, Bnford 

Baugh, Peter 

Brashear, Robert 

Brackett, Sallie 

P.rizf^ndine, Maud... 
Brown, Sophronia... 

Brumback, Dora 

Bnchert, Willie 

r'astle, George 

Clark, Beniamin 

" Millie 

nieraents, Nellie 

Oottengin, Dillard . 

Cotton, Robert 

Daniels, James 

Kasferling, Rhoda.. 

TCrwin. Chester 

Pelhoelter, iTforge.. 

(rannon, Bri(l<ret 

Gill. SaIHe 

Hook, Oceola 

Hord, Seth 

TToskins Pe« 1 'ie 

Hnmphvev. Effle 

Tntzi. Mnry 

Tqaqcs. Nnnov 

T^hnson, T.pttie 

T<'in(a:, Zfldie .. 

Knoechelman, Lewis 



luka , 

McAfee. 
Soi.ora . 
Lily 



Barterville 

Million 

Ashland.. ... 
Barefo )t ... 
Onton 



Hardin 

Morgan.,.. 

OarLur 

Calloway 

Gravetj 

VVeb^^te^ .. 

Nelson 

Pike 

I Adair 

[\ i em lee .. 
'Jelfersi n 
Johnson.. 
Lincoln,.. 



Livington 

Mercer 

Hardin 

Laurel 

Mercer 

Nicholas... 

Madison.... 

Boyd , 

Nicholas . 
Webs^,er..,. 



1890 



Boone.. . 
Pulaski. 
Daviegs. 
Lincoln. 



Hamilton... 
I'aubush., 
Owensboro 
Stanford.. 

Pulton Fulton ... 

Boi-eing jLaurel , 

(ieorget'wnjScott 

Npwport jCampbel 

Paint.sville Ijohnson.. 
Berlin iBracken .. 



Louisville 
GHrdler .... 
Larkins.... 

Ouod 

Elamton.. 
Providence 
Louisville 



Jefferson . 

Knox 

Christian . 
l\TagofiiTi.. 
MorsjTiin.... 
Webster.. 
Jefferson 



Maplesville Lnurei 

Hanson 1 Hopkins., 

Hopkinsv'e 

r.ondon 

Ed en ton 

T>ouisville- 



•"T'ah'sXRd Lnnrp] 

Hnnville- •■ Bovlfi 

Milton 'Trimble... 

Louisville ..IJefferson 



rhrist ian . 

Laurel 

^Tadis^n .. 
.lefTerson , 



1801 



9 
16 
10 
1 1 
10 
10 
10 

Ui 
12 
22 
15 
19 
12 
10 
9 
11 

19 
13 

9 

11 
13 
11 
19 
10 

1 

1 

10 
IC 

11 

15 

s 

7 
19 
13 

9 

i» 

18 
lii 
10 

l.i 
8 



189L 



1892 



189L 



1S91 



1892 



1S9-' 



1892 



!) 2 
12 2 

lO 'i 2 

12 1 2 

8 2 
18 2 
112 
17! 2 



1892 



THB •KWrUCKY SCHOOX TOK THE DEAF. 



7d 



Tkade 
Leakned 

AT Sc'HOOl 



Deafness 



Q 

UK 

m 



Deaf Kbi.a- 

TIVBS. 



Consan- 
guinity OP 

PAB.ENTS. 



Rkmarks 



949 
950 
951 
952 
953 
954 
955 Piiiifg 
956 
957 
958 
959 
9(i" 
961 
962 
963 
!I64 
0(i5 
9(iG 

ml 

ii6S 
969 
■970 
;971 
972 



Carpt'g 



CongeniteL. 
Ris'g in h'd 
Congenital.. 
Typh'dl'v'r 
Congenital 

jNIeuingitis 

Congenital 

Ris'g in ear 

Int'm'tf'v'r 

Congenita 

Sickness.... 

Congenital 



Sh'mkg 



•973 
■974 
•<i75 
':i76 
!i77 
:978 
979 

981 

■!K^2 

1183 
VSi 
•985 
■986 
'.187 
988 
<)S9 Print'g 
990 Print'g 
991 
S92 
9^3 
994 
995 
99t) 
937 
W9S 
999 
lOOU 
1001 



Unknown... 
Congenital 



Wh'|)'gc'gli 
Unknown .. 
Congenital 



Meningitis 



Unknown 



Typh'df v'r 

Mal'ri'lfV] 

Meningitis 

ScarletrVr 

Unknown . 

Meningitis 

Fever 

Congenital 

"VTeningitis 
Ris'g in h'd 
Unknown . 

Conp:enitpl 
Meningitis 

Brain fever 
Cona-enital 
i^nrofnla .... 
Ris's inli'd 
Congenital 
Unknown . 

Measl's 

T^is'e in h'd 
Afp.nsles... 
Unknown 
i^pasms 



Two co'sins 



10 



A brotiier. 



\ Same 

1 Family. 



Parents.. 



S'v'lcoasin 
2sis. &abi'o 



J ■J 



2sis.& 2bro. 



^ Same.... 
} Family. 



2 cousin's 
Fa & sis... 



Two sisters 



A bro. &sis, 
A f ousin 



A SHORT HISTORY 



3) 



Post Office 
i Adi>kess. 



County of 

tiESlDENCE j 



AmrtTT! D 



7; 



1002^ 



loos 

iac4 

l005 
iQOb 
H)07 
luO-i 

IQIO 
iQll 
1012 

iQia 

1014 

016 
10. (> 
101 
1018 



Mauzy, Lillie 



iVlay, riasaii 

May, iJavid 

Moore, Howard 

McUuliough, Lillian 
Not'cliein, rnomas... 

t'ej'klns, Oeci4 

Pre s con, Augustus... 

Poulter, Ora 

Prewitt, Henry 

Rrdler, Amos 

Shook, Cha» 

Spencer, OJga 

Sporing, Leonard 

Stapleton, Harry..... 

Taylor, Samuel 

Turner, Tiiomas 

Inl9 Waiker, Felix 

lO-'u Warnock, Virgil 

1021 Wheeler, Wm. W. .. 

1022 We;(lmar, Bertha 

1023 " Martha 

1024 
102.T 
1026 
102 
1028 



1029 
1030 
1031 
1032 
1043 
1034 
1035 
1036 
1037 

1038 
1039 
1040 
1041 
1042 



Wilkins, Mary 

Williams, Carrie 

Sylvester. 

Wright, Leslie 

Youn}?, Catherine... 



Dixon _ 

Falcon 

Danville 

New Haven 
Providence 
VV ebbville .. 

Stithton 

TbddyPoint 

Ziza 

Saxtui) 

ijjuisville .. 
Covington.. 

Oneonta 

Newport 

Ludlow 

Br} antsvi'e 
Hardinsb'g 
Warnock ... 

Blaine 

E.Bernst'dt 
E.Bernst'dt 
Loenville . 
Panther .. 
Panther ... 
Frankfort 
Touspy .... 



Wel)ster_.. 
Magoffin .. 



1891 



Austin, Luke 

Barton, Martha 

Billings, Daisy 

Blessing, Lily 

Brewsangh, Hebert. 

Davis, Rebecca 

EMndge. John 

Frank, Sena 

Helton, Alice 

" John 

" Louisa 

Huber, Barbara 

Jones, Julia 

Jordan, Washington 

JJ^ig Killion, John 

ji^^^lKinchcloe. Oscar, 



Lowis, Felix 

Payne, Clara C ... 

Pi'prca. Na.nc y 

'^nxi'^^v, Siisette 

"^mith, Nina 

'^T-lor. Morten 

lO'il '''"fr>rd. Wqltpr 

10^2i^'~''^^^'^i'- 'trover C... 
10531 Wilson, Yigie 



1045 
1046 
1047 

104'^ 
1040 
1 OoO 



Boyle 

Nelsou 

Webster.. ... 
Lawrence... 

Hardin 

Shelby 

Whitley 

Whitley 

Jefferson ... 

Kenton 

Campbell.. .. 
naoipbell.. .. 

Kenton 

Garrard 

lireckinr'ge 

Greenup 

Lawrence.... 

Laurel 

Laurel 

Calloway ... 

Daviess 

Daviess 

Franklin 

Grayson — 



Stithton 

Lily 

Louisville . 
Carrolton... 
Robertson. 
Sumner .... 

Evarts 

Canevville. 
Wallin'sCr 



Louisville 
Combs.. 
Q.uincy .... 

BoreinsT 

Camp 'burg 
Joneshnrg.. 

V^rrruR 

A r^'Pmus 

Svilosville .. 

'^'^■vfnrip, 

willowC'-o 
OTornwpll ... 
Atliert'nv'e 
Select 



Hardin 
Laurel .... 
Jefferson 
Carroll .. 
Harrison ... 

Whitley 

Harlan 

Grayson 

Harlan 

Harlan 

Harlan 

Jefferson .... 

Madison 

Lewis 

Laurel 

Henry 

Harlan 

Hardin 

Knox 

Muhlenb'rg 

Shelby 

Bracken 

Ohio 

T aRue 

Ohio 



I89I 



9 1 


2 


9 1 


1 1 


8 1 


1., 


z 


7 




12 


2 


lU 


1 1 


13 


0 


() 


2 


11 


^ 1 


10 


2 


11 


2 


12 


2 


11 




8 




9 
8 


2 • 






Q 

0 


2 . 

,] 1 




IS 

I 0 


•5 


1 1 

J. 1 


•7 


1 Q 


■> 


11 


1 J 


18 


.) 


10 


•t 


8 
14 




00 

ZVf 


1 


10 


1 




1 


Q 


1 




1 




1 


1 A 

14: 


1 


13 


1 


18 


1 


13 


1 


10 


1 


19 


1 


9 


1 


9 


1 


16 


1 


15 


1 


1(1 


1 


19 


1 


20 


1 


11 


1 


14 


1 


9 


1 


10 


1 


8 


1 


9 


1 



1892r 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



81 



^2! 
















Trade 


Deafness 


Deaf Rela- 


GONSAN- 




33 


Leakned 


a 




Rli.MARICS. 




> 




CiUINITV OF 




AT School 


> 

03 
P- 


Q 
W 


tives. 


Parents. 





Unknown, 



Congenital 
Scarlet f'v'r 
Congenital 
Meningitis 
Congoiiital 



Measles .... 
Unknown. 



Meningitis 
Rs'g in ear 
Congenital 
Ris g in h'd 
Congenital 
Ris'g in h'd 
Unknown.. 

Congenital 



Congenital 

A fall 

Abcess 

Congen ti 
Brain fever 
Unknown . 



Congenital 



10 



n 



Same ... 
Family 



A brother. 



A sister... 
A sister... 
A cousin 



Disease.., 
Unknown .. 

Spas ms 

Congenital 



Spasms 

Unk nown.. 
( 'Ongenital 
Unknown... 

Scrofula 

Congenital 
Sore throat 
Congenital 
Meninsritis.. 
Unlcnown ... 
Congenital 
Catarrh 



S'v'lco's... 
j Same.... 
( Family. 



j Samw.... 
\ Family. 



Abro. &co's 
tVbro.& sis.. 
Same 



Family... 



A cousin ... 



IiIST OF PUPlIiS. 



(COLORED DEPARTMENT.) 



84 



A SHORT HISTORY OF 













^< 


o 


G 




Post Office 
Address. 


County of 

lij£SlI>liNC'J5 


Admittkd 




a;' 
c 


BKK....I 


Name. 


-i o 


s 

J. 
o 





7 

y 

9Lo 
lu 
11 
12 
13 
14 



Poole, Deiini.^. 

Rice, Ellen 

Roberts, Robert. 
Webb, Mar, 

15 Williams, .Albert. 

16 Yelmore, Prince. 



17 Berry, Cora Bell 

18 Drake, Maggie 

Glass, Susan 

Hughes, Susie 

McComlis, Parker.. 

Owsley, Geo 

Smith, Page 

Taylor, John 



Owenton ... Owen 

Danville [Boyle 

Harrodslj'g Merctr 

Kicholasv'e'Jessan.ine . 



Alexander, Owen 

2Banford, Jos 

Bradshaw , Ansel 

4 Daniels, George.. 

5 J?'ox, James 

H;iys, Robert...... 

Keinper, Julia 

Lilly, Sallie 

wrie, Jack jHarrodslTg 

Pittman, Henry Frankfort .. 



Elkton 

Danville 

RacoonDen 
Cyinthaiia.. 



Hopkinsv'e 

Danvilie 

Pedford 

Owensboro. 

Paris 

Lowell 



25 Bell, Andy 

2t) Caul, Josh 

27 Havis, Rachel 

28 Fields, Lottie 

•'9 Gunn, John 

30 Johnson, Henry 

31 I\ennedy,Willie 

C2 McFarland. Curtis... 

33 Piles, Henrv 

M '^cott, Willie 

3 Taylor, Willie 

3(i Tee. Lucy 

37 Tee, Mary 

3H Tee, Rice 

39 Webb, Jennie 



40 
41 

4'-' 

43Eudle 



Helena .... 
Faywood . 
Hopkinsv'e 
Pleusu.R'jie 
Hopkinsv'e 

Stanford 

Carrolton... 
Aliceton ... 



Sbelbyville 

Danville 

Shelby City Boyl 

Paris 

Princeton . 
iSIayslick.... 

Lowell 

Lowell 

Big Spring. 
Cloverport 
Edenton.... 
Carlisle...,. 

Carlisle 

CnHisle 

Ciintcn 



Bell, Chiiilie Hopkinsv'e 

Prewer. Rolfe Hopkinsv'e 

Downey, Frank |Win 

" John Louisville 

' albott, Willie Lexingto" .. 



Anderso]) . John .... 
fin nary, Augusta. 
Dunson, Fannie... 

(rraves, Andy 

Jones, Cora 



Bowling' G.. 
Rhelbyvi'lle 
Sperwell... 
TC ingston. 
Ewing 



Todd 

Boyle 

LaureJ 

Harrison.. 

Mercer 

Franklin . 
Clnistiaii . 

Bovle 

T'imble.... 
Davit ss.... 
Bourbon ... 
Garrard ... 



Alason 

Fayette.... 
Christian . 
* hristian . 
Jt'fi'erson . 
Lincoln.... 

Carroll 

Boyle 



Shelby 

Boyle 

e 

Bourbon .... 
Caldwell.... 

Mason 

Garrai d 

Garrard 

Hardin .... 
Breck'r'ge. 
Madison.... 

Nicholfis 

Nicholas .. 
Nicholas ... 
Blickman ... 



Chri.stian. 
Christian. 

Chester Clark 

Jefferf-oi. . 
Fayette.... 



1886 



1887 



1888 



Warren 1889 

Shelby 

Madison : 

Madison j 

Fleming [ 



2r.li 



I89O 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL TOR THE DEAf. 



'85 



2! 

a 
3 



Thade 
Leaknbd 

AT SCHOOl. 



Deafness 



Deaf Eela- 

~ TIVBS. 



Consan- 
guinity OF 
Parents. 



Remarks 



Scarlet I'v'r 3 
Congenital 



UnK'iiown... 
Congenital 



Meningitis 
Brain lever 
Dr'k'g lye.. 
Scarletf'v'r 

a 

Unknown .. 
Brain fever 
Meningitis 
Sickness 

Congenital 
Spott'di'v'r 

Sickness 

Congenital 
Diphtheria 
Scarlet f'v'r 
Congenital 



Sickness.... 

A fall 

Scarlet fevr 

€okl 

Congenita) 



Unknown... 

Sciofula 

Unknown. . 
Whpg cogh 
Congenital 



Unknown. 



Conn^enital 
Ris'nj in ear 
Meningitis 



Congenital. 



Unknown.. 
Fever 4 



Same.... 
Family. 



68 



A SHORT HISTORY OP 



'A 
a 
S 



Name. 



Post Office 
Address. 



County of 
Residence 



ik; 

Admittkd 5 



50 
51 

52 
53 
54 
55 

66 
57 
58 
59 
60 
61 
62 
63 

64 
65 
66 
67 
68 
69 
70 
71 
72 



Ray, Louis 

Trabue, Beiinie 

Holdman, Luella... 
Livingtone Levi ... 
Richaidson, Fannie 
Royston, Azile 

Adams, Laura 

Bates, Lee 

Board, Henry 

Burris, Ella 

Hobbs, Silas 

Martin, Allie 

McCann, John 

Tye, Sidney 

Bright, Lena 

Dickerson, Lala 

El J , James , 

Henderson, George 

Ivey, Gideon 

Thurman, Geo 

Thurman, Jas 

Thurman, Mary , 

Thurman, William, 



Louisville... Jefiferson ... 1890 
Louisville... Jefferson ... 



Louisville .. 
Frenchburg 
Pembroke .. 
Lowell 



Bioomfield.. 

Ford 

Hardinb'rg 
Henderson 
Bioomfield 
Louisville .. 
Lexington.. 
Carpenter. 

CrabOrch'd 
Bowl'gGr'n 

Pineville 

State Line.. 
Pineville ... 
Whitewood 



Jefferson ... 
Menifee . 
Christian... 
Garrard . 



Nelson 
Clark..."; 

Breckinr'ge 
Henderson 

Nelson 

Jefferson ... 

Fayette 

Whitley 



^incoln. 
Warren. 

Bel! 

Fulton .. 

Bell 

Green ... 



3 

9 4 



1891 14 

S 

12 
10 



1892 



14 



1891 
I892 



THE KENTUCKY SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



87 



a 


Trade 


Deafness 


Deaf Eela- 

TIVES. 


Consan- 






Learned 
AT School 


Age. 

Cause 


guinity OP 
Parents. 


Remarks 



Fever. 

Congenital 

Scrofula 

Measles 

Unknown . 



Meningitis 

Congenital 

Measles 

Scarletf'v'r 
Meningitis 
Unknown.. 



Meningitis 
Unknown.., 



HISTORY 

OF THE 

OHIO INSTlTaTION 

FOR THE 

^ddeatiop of Deaf apd Dumb. 



BY 

ROBERT PATTERSON. 




COLUMBUS, 0. : 
Printed at the Institution Office. 
1893. 



SEgcFiption o! tt^E Building?. 



The building in the frontispiece, nominall_v one, really consists of 
eight, suitably connected, and was erected at a cost of $650,000. It is 
built of brick, and is elaborately trimmed with stone. The roofing is of 
slate,, the cornice of galvanized iron, and the balconies, pillars, railing and 
floor, of iron. The number of bricks required was 8,000,000 ; the roof-cor- 
nice is 3,800 feet in length ; the gas-pipes measure two miles ; the interior 
walls and ceilings have a surface of twelve acres, and the floor a surface 
of four acres. The windows number 800. The front building, 270 feet in 
length, is surmounted by seven towers, the center one being 115 feet high, 
the two at its side 105 feet, and the four at the corners 97 feet. The center 
tower has been finished to the top, and from it, ascending by a spiral stair- 
case, visitors have a magnificient view of the city. This front building is 
divided by a hall ten feet wide, running its entire length, upon every 
story, each story above the basement being fifteen feet high. The use of 
this building is for ofiices, library, hospitals, parlors, sewing and store- 
rooms, and chambers occupied by officers and employes. Attached to the 
front building are three wings, running north, all invisible in the picture. 
The central wing, 145 by 40 feet, is occupied b^' the kitchen and adjacent 
store-rooms, the dining-room and a chapel 23 feet in height. The two ex- 
terior wings extend north 115 feet, aff'ording a hall the entire length, and 
adjacent rooms for baggage, clothing, washing, bathing and water-closets. 
Attached to these exterior wings, and extending at right angles to them, 
110 feet east and west, are two wings 40 feet wide, called the boj's' and 
girls' wings. These are the parts of the building visible at the sides of the 
picture. The first story is used as a play-room. The second is the sitting 
or study-room, and is used out of school and work hours. The two upper 
stories are dormitories. The very fine provision made for light and air is 
obvious to the eye. These side wings return by corridors to the central 
wing, which continues by the bakery and store-rooms in the basememt, 
and by corridors in every story, to the school building in the rear. This 
building, 115 by 55 feet, is invisible in the cut. It is three stories high 
and contains twenty-five school-rooms. Still further to the rear is a build- 
ing 100 feet square, from the corner of which rises the ventilating shaft, 
115 feet high, and visible in the cut directly above the girls' wing. The 
building contains the boilers, engines and pumps for heating the main 
building and for supplying every part with water. A few yards west of 
this is a two-story brick building 55x25 feet, containing the machinery 
and appliances of the laundry. At the extreme right of the picture ap- 
pears the barn. Between it and the boys' wing is seen the east end of 
the bindery, which is 130x35 feet. North of this is the industrial building 
and ice-house, 375x22 feet in size, containing the carpenter-shop, shoe- 
shop, tailor-shop, printing-office and fire department. On the left of the 
girls' wing is the conservatory, a beautiful structure, filled with flowers 
and rare plants. 



lSo®r(^ of TrU^tee^. 



J. A. STERRETT, Miami county, 

Term expires April 14, 1893. 

GEO. HAMILTON, Columbiana county, 

Term expires April 14, 1894. 

S. A. KINNEAR, Franklin county, 

Term expires April 14, 1895. 

W. A. GIPSON, Wyandot county, 

Term expires April 14, 1896. 

T. P. EVANS, Montgomery county. 

Term expires April 14, 1897. 



S. R. CLARK Superintendent. 

THE SCHOOL. 

ROBERT PATTERSON , , Principal. 

ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT. 

Benjamin Talbot, Robert P. McGregor. 

grammar department. 
Charles N. Haskins, Augustus B. Greener, 

Leonce a. Odebrecht, Albert H. Schory, 

Ralph H. Atwood. 

primary department. 
Ira Crandon, William H. Zorn, Ella A. Zell, 

Lulu Stelzig, Fannie Walker, Cassie H. Smith, 

Etta Nagle, Letitia Doane, Grace H. Rose, 

Mary E. Grow, Bessie Edgar, Maggie Long, 

Carrie M. Feasley, Frances Saunders, Mary E. Bancroft. 

articulation department. 
LiDA O'Harra Mansur, Louisa K. Thompson, Mary E. Clark. 

THE family. 

J. K. Pollard Steward. 

B. F. LipPiTT Physician. 

Helen A. Rose Matron. 

Ida M. Moore Housekeeper. 

W. H. AiNswoRTH Storekeeper. 

Lewis W. Flenniken .Boys' Supervisor. 

the shops. 

Mitchell C. Lilley Master of the Book Bindery. 

Edward J. Scott Master of the Printing Office. 

Harry M Startzman Master of the Carpenter Shop. 

Parley P. Pratt Master of the Shoe Shop. 

August Odebrecht Master of the Tailor Shop. 

GusTAVus S. Grate Master of the Engine House. 

William H. Schwartz Master of the Conservatory. 



SCHOOL BUILDING. 




IiXDUSTltlAL lUir.niNC 




LAUM)i;V. 




CONSKKVATOHY. 




MBKAHY. 



1 



I 



THE Ohio Institution for the Education of the Deaf and 
Dumb, the fifth in the order of foundation, was in- 
corporated by an act of the Legislature, passed in 1827. It was 
the first established upon the idea that it is the primary duty 
of the State to place within the reach of every child the means 
of education, whereby to become capable of discharging the 
duties of citizenship. This grand idea of educated citizenship 
was distinctly declared in the ordinance of 1787, or, as its legal 
title reads, "An ordinance for the government of the territory of 
the United States northwest of the Ohio River," in the follow- 
ing words : "Religion, morality and knowledge being necessary 
to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools, 
and the means of education, shall forever be encouraged." 

When the State Constitution was adopted in 1802, it contained 
the following provision : "Religion, morality and knowledge 
being essentially necessary to good government and the happi- 
ness of mankind, schools and the means of instruction shall 
forever be encouraged by legislative provision, not inconsistent 
with conscience." The opposition to State education by the 
"strict constructionists" was wide spread and aggressive, but 
the friends of the cause took firm hold of the idea, agitating it 
until it was developed and enacted into a law in 1825— the first 
law that authorized a general tax, to use the language of the 
law itself, "for the instruction of youth of every class and 
grade without distinction, in reading, writing, arithmetic and 
other necessary branches of a common education." The law 
provided for a tax of one-half of a mill to be levied by the 
County Commissioners upon the county duplicate for the use 
and maintenance of common schools. 

As a result of the long and bitter agitation upon the subject 
of education, the way was prepared for the establishment of 
the Institution by the Legislature. To Rev. James Hoge, D. D., 
more than to any other man, belongs the credit for bringing 
about the consummation. He was a prominent Presbyterian 
minister of Columbus. A staunch friend of popular education, 

2 



18 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



he was one of the seven commissioners appointed by Governor 
Trimble, in 1822, to take steps looking towards a school system 
for the State. His appointment on the commission led to his 
interest in deaf-mute education. A letter, bearing the date of 
Jan. 3, 1822, was received by Governor Trimble from the direct- 
ors of the Pennsylvania Institution, established in 1820, 
describing the facilities possessed by the school and inviting 
Ohio to send pupils upon the same terms charged to citizens of 
their own State. Among other things the letter said : ''Returns 
of the Deaf and Dumb have been made from the different 
■counties of the State, and what was apprehended by some is 
now reduced to a painful certainty — their number being found 
much greater than had been generally supposed. This, we 
presume, will prove to be the case in our sister States, consider- 
ing how much neglect such unfortunate persons too often 
suffer, and the motive to concealment which their friends and 
parents find in their personal feelings, when there is no pros- 
pect of giving them relief." 

"Had you, Sir, seen our earliest pupils at the time of their 
admission, and could you now see them, and compare their past 
with their present condition, we venture to say that you would 
find abundant reason for exerting your individual and official 
influence, to obtain the means of affording to these unhappy 
objects of your own State the benefits of instruction. The 
translation, indeed, of one of the inferior species of creation, to 
the human species, would be only in a degree more wonderful 
than we have in several instances witnessed in our scholars ; 
and we may add, as a great encouragement, that thirst for far- 
ther improvement, and rapidity of acquirement, after the de- 
lights of knowledge are once tasted, seem to be characteristic 
of the Deaf and Dumb. In these respects they appear rather 
to have the advantage of most children blessed with the pos- 
session of all their senses." 

What wonder that these statements made a profound impres- 
sion upon Dr. Hoge's mind, and awoke in his heart an interest 
that never allowed him to rest until he had helped bring about 
the establishment of a school for the deaf of his own State? 

Although the Legislature did not accept the invitation to 
send pupils to Philadelphia, an act was passed at the next ses- 
sion, requiring "the listers of the several townships in each 
county of the State, at the time of taking the enumeration of 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



19 



white persons, to ascertain the number of the deaf and dumb, 
of all ages, and to return said lists to the clerk of common 
pleas of said county," with a statement of their pecuniary con- 
dition. The result of the enumeration was four liundred and 
twenty-eight deaf-mutes in the State, without Athens and 
Hamilton, the latter the most populous in the State, which 
made no returns. Seventy-two were reported as "in good cir- 
cumstances," 66 as "in middling circumstances," 279 as "poor" 
and 11 were not reported. It was plain that there existed 
material enough for a school, and that but little dependence for 
its support could be placed upon tuition fees from parents 
and guardians. Dr. Hoge now saw his way clear, and brought 
the subject to the attention of Governor Morrow; and, at his 
suggestion, the Governor inserted a strong recommendation in 
his message to the Legislature at the opening of the session of 
1826-7, urging "the establishing of aii Asylum for the education 
of the deaf and dumb persons in this State." On the 8th of 
December, 1826, the subject was referred in the House of Rep- 
resentatives to a select committee of three. Dr. Hoge went 
before the committee with an elaborate memorial, prepared by 
himself and signed by a large number of prominent citizens. 
The memorial detailed, at length, the condition of the deaf 
previous to instruction, the efforts that had been made in for- 
eign countries, and recently in our own, for their relief, and the 
change which education wrought in them. On the 27th, the 
Committee reported a bill for incorporating the Institution, and 
it passed without serious opposition on January 30, 1827. 

Prior to the act of incorporation, two applications were made 
to the Legislature for pecuniary aid in behalf of the deaf. 
During the session of 1819-20, a citizen of Stark county applied 
for State aid in sending his son to the American Asylum. 
A bill was reported in his favor, but there appears to have been 
no final action taken upon it. In the spring of 1821, an associ- 
ation of citizens was formed in Cincinnati, ''for establishing a 
school for the instruction of the Deaf and Dumb in this west- 
ern part of the country." Rev. James Chute was selected and 
sent to the American Asylum in July to qualify himself for the 
work. He returned home in the following November, and the 
next month the Association made application to the Legislature 
for an act of incorporation, under the name of "The Western 
Asylum for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb," and for 



20 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



pecuniary aid. The application was rejected, on the ground 
that such an Institution should have a central location. Mr. 
Chute's connection with the enterprise ceased. He was after- 
ward chaplain of the old Ohio Penitentiaiy. Before .any or- 
ganization was effected by the act of incorporation, a school for 
the deaf was started in May, 1827, in Tallmadge, now in Sum- 
mit county, Ohio. In the village was a man, Bradley by name,, 
who had three deaf daughters in his family. Their condition 
excited the sympathy of the neighbors, and inquiry brought 
out the fact that there were other mutes in neighboring town- 
ships. A meeting of citizens was held March 19, 1827, and a 
resolution was adopted "to make an attempt to establish a 
school or asylum for the deaf and dumb." A committee was 
chosen, with full powers to arrange for a school, which, in the 
language of the Committee, "if public sentiment and ben(-vo- 
lence shall justify, is intended to become a permanent institu- 
tion." Mr. Colonel Smith, a mute who received six years' 
instruction in the American Asylum and had taken up his 
residence in the village, was engaged for a school term of six 
months, tuition to be $6. The school was supported by private 
charity. The sum of $100 was voted by the Legislature, in 
1828, for the salary of the teacher, and the same amount was 
granted for the next year, "should the school in Columbus not 
go into active operation." The latter money was not drawn 
from the treasury, the sclrool having been closed. Eleven i)u- 
pils were enrolled, most of whom afterward attended the Ohio 
Institution. 

BOARD OF TRUSTEES. 

The act of incorporati(«i provided for the appointment of a 
Board of Trustees by the Governor who was to be ex-officio 
President. The Board was to exercise the usual corporate pow- 
ers and to hold property, the animal income of which should not 
exceed $30,000. The first Board consisted of eight members, who 
met and organized in July, 1827. Governor Trimble was Pres- 
ident ex-ojficio; *Rev. James Hoge, D. D., Secretary, and Gusta- 
vus Swan, Esq., Treasurer. The number of trustees was increas- 
ed to twelve the next year. Until 1845 the number fluctuated 
between twelve and fourteen. In 1846, the Governor ceased to 
be ex-officio President, and the Board has since appointed one of 
their own number to discharge the duties of President. Then 

*Dr. Hoge contimu'd Secretary to the Board iiulil April, 1848. 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



21 



the number of trustees was reduced to seven, and remained so 
until' 1852, when all the Benevolent Institutions were placed 
under one Board of nine Trustees. A committee of three had 
control of the Institutions during the interim of the stated 
meetings of the Board. In 1856, the Institutions were re-organ- 
ized, being placed under separate Boards of three Trustees 
each, which number continued until 1878. The number has, 
since then, been five, the Superintendent of the Institution dis- 
charging the duties of Secretary.- 

LOCATION. 

The Board, in its first report made to the Legislature in De- 
cember 5, 1827, recommended that the Institution be located at 
Columbus for the following reasons : 

"At this place it will be under the eye, and subject to the in- 
spection of the Legislature, its immediate Patron, at all times. 

And the facilities of intercourse and conveyance, which are 
collected at this point, render it more convenient to every part 
of this State, and the north-western States, generally, than any 
other place." 

In accordance with this recommendation, an act was passed 
by the Legislature, in 1829, appropriating $500 for the purchase 
of a suitable site in Columbus. Three outlots, containing about 
ten acres, then half a mile from the town, were bought for three 
hundred dollars — "a price considerably below the supposed val- 
ue." Dr. Hoge owned one of the lots. They are now in the heart 
■of the city, and are worth over $300,000. The grounds were, at 
first, divided by interior fences and devoted mainly to the rais- 
ing of crops ; but, in 1868, they were rearranged by a skilful land- 
scape artist, presenting a fine variety of surface, with beautiful 
lawns, drives and walks. About the year 1850 the removal of 
the Institution to a country site began to be a sulaject of talk 
among the members of the Legislature, but it was strenuously 
opposed by Superintendent after Superintendent down to 1864. 

BUILDINGS. 

The Board, in its first report, calculating upon dividing with 
the Kentucky Institution, founded in 1823, the patronage of the 
Mississippi Valley north and west of the Ohio River, counted 
upon an attendance of from fifty to seventy-five, and submitted 
plans for buildings which, it was hoped in view of "the low 



22 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



prices of materials and labor," could be purchased or erected 
for five thousand dollars. But the finances of the State were 
then greatly absorbed in the construction of canals, and the 
Board was compelled to rent buildings in Columbus until able 
to build. It was not until 1832 that an appropriation, part of 
the dues arising from public sales in Cincinnati, allowed the 
commencement of the first building which was completed for 
occupancy in the fall of 1834. The building was fifty feet by 
eighty and three stories high, costing, with a barn and out- 
buildings, .$15,000. It was designed to accommodate from sixty 
to eighty pupils, and was thought to be sufficiently large to 
meet the wants of the Institution for many, years to come. But 
in 1845, the attendance of over a hundred necessitated the addi- 
tion of a wing to the south side, seventy feet by thirty and four 
stories high. The Institution had now accommodations for one 
hundred and fifty pupils ; but before the lapse of another decade 
the want of more room was sorely felt, and from that time on 
the Board, in its annual reports, bombarded the Legislature 
upon the necessity of additional buildings. 

In the spring of 1864, although the State was going through 
the throes of the Civil War, the Legislature, on account of the 
dilapidated condition of the original building which was 
described in public prints as " an uncomely relic of modern 
antiquity," passed unanimously a bill, providing for the erec- 
tion of a new house, "to be of plain and substantial construc- 
tion, having special adaptation and proper economy for the 
convenient and suitable accommodation of three hundred and 
fifty pupils and necessary officers and servants." The Governor, 
instead of the Board, was empowered to carry out the provis- 
ions of the act. The ground was broken on the 30th of June, 
1864, in the rear of the old building, and the middle of the fol- 
lowing autumn witnessed the laying of the corner-stone. In 
the spring of 1867, while the new house was still in process of 
construction, an epidemic, which proved to be typhoid fever, 
broke out, claiming for its victims five of the pupils. The 
school was immediately disbanded to arrest the advancing 
progress of the epidemic. To use the language of the Institu- 
tion physician : "The probable cause of this epidemic — added 
to the prevalent bad influence of [the] season, [and] the inter- 
ruption of the already defective ventilation of the old building 
by the construction of the new building and all its extensive 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



23 



excavations — was the temporary obstruction of the sewer in the 
rear of the building." 

The demolition of the old building was soon afterward begun, 
and by the fall of 1868 the new one was opened for the recep- 
tion of pupils, the formal opening occurring on the 11th of 
February, 1869, when Gov. R. B. Hayes presided, and Rev. 
Collins Stone delivered an elaborate address upon the "History 
and Methods of Deaf-Mute Instruction." The style of architec- 
ture of the building is c'alled the "Franco-Italian," because the 
campaniles or towers are of the form and appearance peculiar 
to the Italian order and their steep roofs and dormer windows 
are of the French style. 

SUPPORT. 

The subject of the support of the Institution was a matter of 
no small perplexity, as the first report of the Board shows. 
The trustees say : 

"For the support of the youth who may be sent to the Asy- 
lum, it is supposed that eighty dollars for each will be suflficient 
to defray the expense of boarding, tuition, fuel, etc., during the 
year. And should Legislative bounty, or individual liberality, 
enable the Board to support the instructors and other persons 
employed in the Asylum, the expense of each individual would 
be diminished in proportion. Perhaps the best plan is that 
adopted by the Legislatures of the several States, which have 
established, or are engaged in sustaining similar Institutions. 
These States have made, by law, full provision for the support 
of such a number of deaf mutes as they deemed sufficient to 
meet the necessities of the poor, among whom by far the largest 
portion of them are found. It is respectfully suggested, as a 
subject of inquiry, whether there may not be an act passed 
authorizing the payment by the Treasurer of State of the neces- 
sary expense, not exceeding eighty dollars for each, of one 
pupil from each Senatorial District in tlie State, to be selected 
by the Senator or Representative of that District, for the time 
being, instead of one from each Judicial Circuit ; with a provi- 
sion that the Commissioners of any county, may partly or 
wholly defray the expense of supporting one for every ten 
thousand inhabitants, which the county may contain ; allowing 
the support in like manner, of one, although the county should 
not contain that number of inhabitants. And further it 



24 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



appears, to be desirable that there .shoiild be express provision 
made that other States shall have the like privilege, on the 
same terms, and pupils shall be admitted at the same rate, 
whether supported by their own or their parents' means, ])y the 
aid of charitable individuals, or associations." 

"The Board, in consideration of this subject, have not forgot- 
ten that the I'evenue of the State is engrossed in a great degree, 
by the noble enterprize of uniting the Ohio witli Lake Erie by a 
navigable canal. They have, therefore, endeavored to find 
sources of income, from wliich such appropriations as are nec- 
essary may be made, wliich will not interfere with the financial 
arrangements of the State, or impose additional burdens on the 
people. And although they have not been as successful as they 
would have desired, they beg leave to suggest the following means 
of meeting the appropriations and expenditures proposed. 

"1. That such parts of the avails of the Salt Lands granted 
by the United States to the State of Ohio, and also of the Lit- 
erary Fund, as are not pledged, or designed to be given to other 
purposes, may be appropriated to this object. Here it may be 
remarked that it is much doubted by many respectal)le citizens, 
whether it is good and sound policy, to place any part of tlie 
proceeds of tlie Salt Lands in the Ccmimon School Fund ; and 
although we would be among the last to deprive our seminaries 
of learning of any part of that aid whicli they may derive frt)m 
this source, yet, it may be worthy of inquiry, whetlier the Asy- 
lum for Deaf-mutes may not share witli them?" 

"2. That an application be made to the Congress of the 
United States, for a donation of land, equal- in quantity to a 
townsliip, to be located in small tracts, at the several land of- 
fices in this State, or elsewhere, under the direction of this 
Board, or if tliis location l)e thought inexpedient, in an entire 
tract, where good land may be obtained. It is thought, however, 
that the former location will be most advantageous to the Asy- 
lum." 

" 3. That a subscrii)tion pajier be opened at the office of the 
Clerk of the County Court in each county, under the direction 
of said Court, and made payable to tlie County Treasurer, in 
order to obtain subscri])tions and donations for the erection of 
buildings, and for the establislinient of a Permanent Fund." 

The first apiu'oj^riation of money made to the Institution by 
the Legislature in 1827-8 was drawn from the "Literary Fund." 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



25 



This fund was originally designed to be a means of sustaining 
the Institution, hut it was inadvertently turned into othe? 
channels, and all appropriations have since been drawn direct 
from the State treasury. 

The Board, in sj^eaking of this matter in the report for 1838, 
says : "Ohio may well pride herself in such exhibitions of her 
liberality; and it has been truly remarked that no other State 
in the Union, perhaps no government in the world has estab- 
lished such institutions as this, and the Institution for the 
Blind, and the Asylum for the Insane, solely by legislative au- 
thority, and by appropriations from the public treasury. Other 
States, older and more populous and wealthy, may have appro- 
priated larger sums, or may have aided more Institutions de- 
signed for the relief of suffering humanity ; but none, so far as 
we are informed, have adopted and carried out the principle 
which may be safely affirmed to be correct — that such establish- 
ments should be made by the State, and be her property, and 
be governed and sustained in this manner, without calling for 
individual bounty as a condition of public patronage." 

In 1830, Governor McArthur, in his message to the Legisla- 
ture, advised that a memorial be presented to Congress, pray- 
ing for a township of land to endow the Institution. This was 
accordingly done, and a resolution was passed directing the 
members of Congress from the State to give the measure their 
cordial support and influence. A bill, granting a township, 
passed one house of Congress without opposition, but in the 
other it was not reached in the order of business before adjourn- 
ment. That was the last of it, although the Superintendent, in 
his report for 1844, recommended that another effort be made, 
as A. P. Stone, Esq., who was a member of the Board of Trus- 
tees, was also a member of Congress. 

During the session of 1829-30, an act was passed, authorizing 
the support of one indigent pupil from each of the nine judicial 
circuits of the State — the pupils "to be selected by the Board of 
Trustees, from persons recommended by the associate judges of 
the counties where they reside." In 1830-31, the numl^er of in- 
digent pupils was increased to eighteen ; in 1832-3, to twenty- 
seven ; in 1833-4, to thirty-six ; in 1884-5, to forty-eight, and v 
in 1835-6, to sixty. In 1844, the Board was empowered to 
admit all suitable applicants. The following provision was in- 
corporated in the Constitution of 1851 : "Institutions for the 



26 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



benefit of the insane, blind, and deaf and dumb shall always be 
fostered and supported by the State." In 1854, just sixteen 
years after the school law was so amended as to make the 
school tax a State, instead of a county levy, thereby making 
the common schools more than ever a State institution, the 
Legislature passed a law, extending free education to all deaf 
children, rich and poor, thus destroying all distinctions of 
aristocracy and caste. 

DOMESTIC DEPARTMENT. 

When the Institution opened in 1829, the boarding depart- 
ment was committed to the charge of, to use the words of the 
Board, "a lady of suitable character, to whose care the female 
pupils may be confided with safety when not under the im- 
mediate care of the teacher." In pursuance of an agreement, 
all the pupils were boarded by the lady at .$1.25 each per 
week, the furniture, fuel and candles being furnished by the 
Board. This arrangement remained in force untir 1884 when 
the lady retired. The Principal then took charge of the board- 
ing establishment, in addition to his duties in the class room 
The Board's report says : "He furnishes board and lodging at a 
fixed price, by contract, per week, to every pupil ; and this has 
been somewhat varied, according to the price of provisions, etc. ; 
and has always been kept as low as the Board, in the exercise of 
their best judgment, believed to be a reasonable compensation. 
In this contract (it ought to be stated) it is stipulated that he 
shall furnish bedding, fuel, light, etc., at hivS own expense ; the 
institution is at no expense on this account." In 1843, tlie ap- 
pointment of a Steward was made. The Board's report says : 
"The appointment seems to perfect the domestic arrangements, 
by releasing the Suiierintendent from the duties of providing 
for the family,-which had become arduous, and enabling him to 
direct his attention to many of the general matters of the 
establishment on which its respectability and usefulness depend. 
The Steward manages the boarding department, has particular 
care of the grounds and attends to the repairs of the buildings." 
The Board recommended altering the plan for the better by 
giving the Steward a salary, which was accordingly done, with 
the requirement of filing a bond for the faithful discharge of liis 
duties. In 1880, the Steward was allowed the services of a 
clerk in his office, and in 1884, the office of Storekeeper was 
created. 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



27 



At the same time that the boarding department passed into 
the hands of the Principal, a Matron was appointed to "take_ 
charge of the female pupils out of school, for the purpose of 
forming their moral and economical habits while they are receiv- 
ing mental improvement." The growth of the Institution ne- 
cessitated the appointment of an Assistant Matron in 1846, and 
another one was added in 1864. In 1868, the positions of House- 
keeper and Nurse were established. Since 1875 two nurses, one 
for the boys and the girls respectivel}^ have been in charge of 
the hospitals. In 1869, a dressmaker was appointed, to be under 
the direction of the Matron. In 1892, an act was passed by the 
Legislature, directing the dressmaker to give instruction in fit- 
ting and cutting. 

In 1841, a' Physician was placed upon the list of officers. 

In 1851, a Visitors' Attendant was appointed "much to the 
relief of the matrons, who found the service not only a burden- 
some addition to their other labors, but they were often obliged 
to neglect their other important duties, especially the proper 
care and supervision of the female pupils and the preparation 
of their work." It was found necessary in 1868 to have a door- 
keeper to receive the visitors and wait upon them. This posi- 
tion was dropped in 1873 when an additional attendant was 
appointed. The two attendants take turns in conducting the 
visitors through the building and attending to the calls of the 
telephone. 

In 1868, a Supervisor for the boys was appointed and the next 
year two boys' attendants were placed in charge of the dormi- 
tories. In the assignment of monitorial duties, the appoint- 
ment of an additional attendant became necessary. Since 188Q 
a lady has attended to the personal cleanliness of the smaller 
boys. A night watch was appointed in 1869, and also the 
laundry was placed in charge of a man. 

INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT. 

The Board was early impressed with the importance of indus- 
trial training. The report for 1836 says : "Of the original plan 
of the Institution, however, one part, and that a very important 
part, yet remains to be acted upon in a way that will be ade- 
quate to the advantages which it proposes. This is the instruction 
of the pupils, the males especially, in those trades which may be 
suitable to their circumstances, and which will enable them to 



28 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



earn a livelihood when they leave the school. This has been a 
subject of investigation with the Board heretofore ; but for want 
of adequate funds, and for other reasons which need not now be 
detailed, little has been done. The girls are, to some extent, 
taught common household business; and the boys have done 
something in horticulture, and have occasionally performed oth- 
er labor on the premises. But it is deemed altogether necessa- 
ry to adopt systematic measures for employing them regularly, 
a portion of every day, in some handicraft that will be profitable 
to them in after life. Two methods of accomplishing this ob- 
ject have been under consideration. The first is, that the Board 
should employ workmen to conduct the different trades that 
shall be introduced, apply sufficient funds to carry on the busi- 
ness advantageously, and dispose of the products for tlie bene- 
fit of tlie Institution. Tlie second is, to contract with mechan- 
ics of proper cliaracter, to instruct the pupils, and manage the 
business chiefly, if not wholly, with their own capital, and for 
their own benefit, giving the labor of those whom thej teach 
during a fixed number of hours every day, as their remuneration 
for time and expense. 'In either way it will be necessary that 
work shops shall be erected, implements furnished, and perhaps 
materials to some amount provided by the Asylum in advance ; 
but in the former case, to a mucli larger extent than the latter. 
For this reason, and because it will probal)ly secure other advan- 
tages, it is tliought that the latter plan is to be preferred. If 
mechanical business is carried on by hiring W(jrkmen, and pro- 
viding all materials, it will be, in all probability, a losing busi- 
ness every year. But if responsible mechanics will manage the 
whole arrangement for their own interest, the pupils will be 
trained, and no loss be incurred." 

In 1838, the Board was enabled to erect a work shop, twenty 
feet by sixty and two stories high, and it was intended to begin 
several mechanical trades as soon as practicable. It was re- 
solved by the Board tliat tlie most economical plan would he to 
"provide tools, and if necessary, make some advance for mate- 
rials and contract witli mechanics to instruct the pupils and 
manage the business at their own expense ajid for their own 
advantage, receiving the labor of the boys as their compen- 
sation." "A committee was appointed to carry this plan into 
effect." 

According to the report for 1840, the above plan had not 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



29- 



proved a success "on account of the diflSculty of finding me- 
chanics willing to engage in such business;" and although con- 
tracts had been made with several men, a beginning had only 
been made in shoemaking. A machine shop had commenced,, 
but nothing came of it. 

In 1841, the shoemaker's shop was still progressing favor- 
ably, though attempts to introduce other kinds of business had 
failed. The Trustees, however, were not discouraged, for they 
say : "The first opportunity of enlarging these operations in 
an advantageous manner, that may offer, will be immediately" 
embraced." 

In 1846, however, even shoemaking by the contract system 
was abandoned. 

Ex-Superintendent G. O. Fay, in his address, entitled "The 
Semi-Centennial History of the Ohio Institution," says : "The 
foremen were interested in teaching the boys only so far as 
they could make their labor profitable to themselves. This 
they failed to do, and they w-ere also annoyed by the thought- 
less waste of material. The relations between foremen and 
boys were sometimes more violent than would have been neces- 
sary had the former been better able to communicate with their 
mute apprentices. Mutual dislike, changes, and a degree of 
unpopularity clouded the enterprise, and, as the room soon 
came to be greatly needed for other important uses, trades, as 
such, were reluctantly dropped." 

It was not until 1863 that shoemaking was resumed, and the 
problem of trade teaching was satisfactorily solved by placing 
Mr. P. P. Pratt, a skilled deaf-mute, in charge of the shop and on 
a salary, "the State owning all the materials and disposing of 
all products." The shop is still under the management of the 
same foreman, who has a knack of making shoemakers out of 
his boys. Since 1890, with the introduction of the necessary 
machinery in the shop, the factory system has been successfully 
taught, in addition to bench work, and it enables the boys to 
obtain a ready entree into the factories in the cities. 

In 1867, by an act of the Legislature, the arts of printing and 
book-binding were added to the industrial instruction of the 
Institution. These trades were placed under the management 
of the Supervisor of Public Printing with the concurrence of the 
Superintendent of the Institution in matters affecting the pupils. 
The appointment of the foreman of the printing office was vested 



30 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



in the Superintendent of the Institution in 1880, and the, 
appointment of Mr. E. J. Scott, a skilled deaf printer, has since 
emphasized the wisdom of the action. The office has printed 
the Mode's Chronicle for a quarter of a century with signal suc- 
cess. Since 1887 the office has done the printing of the State 
Board of Agriculture and the State Weather Bureau. 

Until 1882 the trades of slioeraaking, printing, and book- 
binding were carried on in the building, one hundred and thirty 
by thirty-five, erected in 1856. The growth of work in the 
Bindery compelled the erection of a new building in 1882, and 
the transfer of the shoe shop and the printing office. In 1880, 
carpentry was placed upon the list of trades, and in 1888, tailor- 
ing was added to the list. These four trades are taught in 
what is called the Industrial Building. 

THE SCHOOL DEPARTMENT. 

Tlie first opening of the school occurred on the 16th of 
October, 1829, with only one pupil, a little boy, Samuel W. 
Flenniken hj name. He was in his twelfth year, looking bright 
and cute in a suit of home-spun, consisting of brown pantaloons 
and a gray jacket, l^uttoned up with two large brass buttons, and 
with a coarse, close-fitting fur cap. Within half an hour of liis 
arrival. Governor Morrow made his appearance, and taking the 
little boy by the hand, gave him an approving pat on the head. 
Other pupils arrived at different periods during the year, and 
when the term closed on the last Friday in July, 1830, the 
number had increased to ten. The second year, 1880-31, had 
thirteen pupils more, and an assistant teacher was appointed in 
the person of Danforth E. Ball, a mute, wlio was educated at the 
American Asylum. The growth of the school has been steady, 
as the following figures will show. One hundred and fifty-three 
pupils were enrolled during the first decade from 1829 to 1839 ; 
251, from 1839 to 1849; 291, from 1849 to 1859; 355, from 1859 
to 1869 ; 670, from 1869 to 1879 ; 574, from 1879 to 1889 ; and 
229, since 1889. Twenty-five hundred and twenty-three have 
received instruction in the school since its opening in 1829. The 
twenty-one liundred and forty-seven pupils who have been dis- 
charged within the past sixty-three years have, with very few ex- 
ceptions, l^ecome useful, law-abiding and self-supporting citizens. 

The roll of teachers bears one hundred and nineteen names, 
twenty-six being graduates of the school. It is a fact worthy 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



31 



of note that twenty more of its graduates have taught in other 
schools in the United States. Of the teachers, William Willard_ 
became Principal of the Indiana Institution ; Thomas Officer, of 
the Illinois Institution ; James S. Brown, of the Indiana Insti- 
tution, afterward of the Louisiana Institution; John S. Officer, 
of the Wisconsin Institution; Louis H. Jenkins, of the Wiscon- 
sin Institution, afterward of the Kansas Institution ; Roswell 
H. Kinney, of the Minnesota Institution, afterward of the Ne- 
braska Institution, of -the Colorado Institution and of the Tex- 
as Institution; John M. Francis, of the. California Institution; 
George L. Weed, of the Ohio Institution, afterward of the Wis- 
consin Institution ; Benjamin Talbot, of the Iowa Institution, 
afterward acting Superintendent of the Ohio Institution ; Gilbert 
0. Fay, of the Ohio Institution; Edward C. Stone, of the Wis- 
consin Institution, afterward of the American Asylum; Charles 
W. Ely, of the Maryland Institution ; Elmore P. Caruthers, of 
the Arkansas Institution ; Charles S. Perry, of the Ohio Institu- 
tion ; Horace H. Hollister, of the West Virginia Institution; 
and Park Terrell, of the Florida Institution. 

The term of instruction was, at first, three years. It was ex- 
tended to four in 1833 ; to five in 1834 ; to seven in 1843 ; and to 
ten in 1866, which is still the legal limit. 

In the report for 1838, the Principal broaches the question, 
"whether the time has not arrived, when other studies, peculiar- 
ly adapted to the condition of the mute, cannot be introduced to 
advantage? I allude particularly to portrait and landscape 
painting, designing, linear drawing, and engraving ; not that they 
should all be taught, but whether a selection could not be 
made from them very advantageously." To quote from the re- 
port for 1844 : "We had two courses of lessons given last year in 
drawing. It was thought a very creditable beginning, particu- 
larly taking into consideration the circumstances, under which 
they were given, the aggregate amount of time devoted to them, 
and the early hour of the morning which Avas thus occupied. I 
would respectfully recommend that these lessons be continued, 
at such times as would be convenient, and to such as manifest 
a talent in this way, not, however to interfere with any existing 
studies or employments in the Asylum." For the past fifty 
years no decided step has been taken in regard to instruction 
in art. 

In 1844, a cabinet of minerals was begun for the purpose of 



32 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



"practical utility in illustrating instruction," and it received, 
from time to time, valuable additions in shells, rare coins and 
scientific apparatus. In 1868, a large room was devoted to its 
use with the expectation of enlarging its usefulness, but the 
room was diverted to other uses in 1881, and the specimens and 
apparatus became ornaments of the Library. 

The Superintendent's report for 1851 says: "A beginning 
has been made in forming a Cabinet of Common Things, such 
as seeds, liquids, specimens of cloth, and small articles of every 
description, which may be preserved in phials, or boxes, or 
placed on shelves. These, properly labeled, can be shown to the 
younger pupils, and they can easily learn their names. Knowl- 
edge derived from the sight of an object is more perfect than it 
can be from a mere sign. Their taste will also be cultivated by 
examining these productions of nature and art, and a desire will 
be excited to enlarge their sphere of knowledge by acquiring the 
names of other things." The phial plan was revived in 1881, 
but it has never been carried on to a very satisfactory extent. 

The report for 1851 also says : "An Institution Library has 
been commenced, embracing reading l)0()ks adapted to the vari- 
ous capacities of the pupils, from the youngest to the most ad- 
vanced. These are divided into Branch Libraries, and, for the 
present, are placed under the direction of the Teachers, in their 
school-rooms, for the use of their respective classes." The libra- 
ry continued to grow in size, and in 1868 a large room was set 
apart for its particular use. It reached the number of nearly 
three thousand volumes by 1879; but not mucli has been done 
in the way of increasing it since then. Since 1882 the juvenile 
books have been kept in the study-rooms within easy access of 
the pupils. 

The re]3ort for 1851 also says: "A gymnasium, to attract the 
pupils to engage daily in healthful exercises, has been erected (m 
the playground, and ])romises to be of especial benefit in the ab- 
sence of workshops and other excitants to a healthy activity." 
This was supplemented by an excellent gymnasium in the build- 
ing erected in 1856 for shops. It was kept up until 1863, when 
it had to give way to the shoeshop. In 1881, another effort for 
a gvmnasium was made in the boys' play-room ; but it was aban- 
doned after a short trial for several reasons. In 1890, a gym- 
nasium was revived in the advanced boys' study-room, but after 
a few months' trial, it was deemed desirable to restore the room 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



38 



to its original purpose. This year a lady of experience has been - 
giving the children daily instruction in Physical Culture in the 
girls' play-room. 

Until 1851 the Superintendent himself preached two sermons 
on Sundays in the chapel, one in the morning and the other in 
the afternoon. From 1852 to 1866 the Superintendent preached 
in the morning and the teachers took turns in conducting the 
afternoon lecture. From 1868 to 1879 the Superintendent 
preached a morning and an afternoon sermon. Since 1880 the 
Superintendent or the Principal and the teachers have rotated 
in conducting the morning service in the chapel. From 1829 to 
1868 the pupils attended a church in the city after the morning 
service at the Institution. Since 1869 a Sunday School in the 
afternoon has been in operation. 

In the year 1866 the lengthening of the term of pupilage to 
ten years justified the establishment of a "high class." In 1872, 
the school was reorganized, being divided by department lines, 
a primary, a grammar, a scientific, or academic, as it is now 
called, consisting of four, three and three years respectively. 
At present the primary department consists of five grades ; "the 
grammar department, of two, and the academic department, of 
two. At the time of the above reorganization, the salaries of 
the teachers were fixed according to departments. The OhiO' 
School was thus the first to abolish the discrimination made be- 
tween the hearing and the deaf teachers in regard to salaries. 

Until 1867 the teachers took turns in supervising during the 
study hour in the evenings and mornings. With the advent of 
the shops the morning study hour was discontinued. In 1880, 
the teachers were relieved of study duty, it being assigned to 
two teachers on each side of the house with extra pay. This 
policy was abandoned in 1889, and now, as before, each teacher 
takes his turn at study duty. Candles gave place to oil in 1846, 
and oil, to gas in 1854. Since 1874 the Institution has been 
furnished with gas by the Penitentiary free of charge ; but the 
quality has at times been so unsatisfactory for the purposes of 
evening study, that electric light is being agitated with a good 
prospect of success in the near future. 

In 1868, in order to obviate the overcrowding of the shops in 
the industrial department at certain hours while they remained 
empty at certain other hours of the day, a system of rotation 
was devised. The school was divided into three divisions and 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



the day into three sessions, as will be seen by the school calendar 
for the present school year here given : 



< 
P 
Z 

w 

< 
□ 

o 

X 
u 
m 



I 



.5 .5 cj .5 

u (4 u u 

S» a< 5 a- >. 0. 

J3 £ XI « j: 

u o S H a, £ 

<» 1^ I, - V 



a, i 



u c " 
C 

|8f 



< 
•o 

a 
u 3 
u C 
,0 a 
o — . 



D 2 o £ o 
— « ^ 

5 ■£ « ~ ffl 



a 

s 



u rt rt 
« p 

E-S 







>. 


September, 
December 
March and Jur 


October, 
January 

and Api 


November, 
February 

and Ma 


m o 


8 m 


8 


« ^ 


o v 


O fi 


2d 2 


2 c 2 


o'g o 




9, 




o n 


is. w 


do o 




By this system while two-thirds of the pupils are in school 
•one-third of them are at work in the shops. The average daily 
time spent by each pupil in school is thus about four hours and 
a half and the time spent in manual labor is about two hours 
and a half. To avoid monotony, as will be seen by examin- 
ing the calendar, the school and shop hours of all the classes 
change on the first day of each month. 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



35 



The daily schedule, given below, will help to make clear the- 
rotation system : 
EISING -.—Sot later than 5:45 a. m. 
BREAKFAST :— Week days— 6 :30 a. m. 

Sundays and Holidays — 7 :00 a. m. 
EECREATION:— Week days— 7 :00 to 7 :30 a. m. 

Sundays and Holidays — 7 :30 to 9 :30 a. m. 
CHAPEL SERVICE :— School days— 7 :45 a. m. 

' - , . . Sundays and Holidays — 9:45 a.m. 

School and Shop work :— 8 :00 to 10 :00 a. m. 
RECESS :-10 :00 to 10 :15 a. ra. 
School and Shop work: — 10:15 a. m. to 12:15 p. m. 
DINNER:— Week days— 12:30 p. m. 

Sundays and Holidays — 1 :00 p. m_ 
RECREATION :— School days—] :00 to 1 :45 p. m. 

Sundays — 1 :30 to 2 :45 p. m. 

*SCHOOL :— 2:00 to 3 :30 p. m. 
SHOP WORK:— 2:00 to 4:30 p. m. 
RECESS :— 3 :30 to 3 :45 p. m. 
SCHOOL :— 3 :45 to 4:30 p. m. 

RECREATION :— School days— 4 :30 to 5 :15 p. m. 

Sundays — 3 -.4'^ to 5 :15 p. m. 

SUPPER:— 5:30 p. m. 

RECREATION :— 6 :00 to 6 :45 p. m. 

STUDY HOUR :— 7 :00 to 8 :00 p. ra. for A and B. 

7:00 to 8:15 p. m. for C. 
Sundays — 7 1o 7 :45 p. m. for A and B. 

7 to 8 p. m. for C. 
Sunday mornings — 11 to 12 m. 
RETIRIN'G:— Younger children— 8 p. m. 

Adult pupils— 9 p. m. 
*Sunday School :— 3 :00 to 3 :45 p. m. 

This system has proved very satisfactory, and has been ad- 
hered to ever since its adoption, with good results. 

In the early days of the school, from the first, articulation 
was taught incidentally to those pupils whose speech enabled 
them to profit by it. In 1869, a systematic effort was made in 
oral work. The Superintendent's report for that year says : 
"The teaching of articulation to semi-mutes, of whom we have 
q, class of thirty-one, has been pursued through the year, the 
■inethod being to carry forward the regular exercises of the day 
by oral speech, where intelligible, having recourse to signs only 
when obliged to. The two teachers employed — one a lady — have 
labored patiently, faithfully and aptly." The next year this 
plan was given up for that of "giving instruction in articula- 
tion and lip-reading, by a teacher experienced and skillful, to 
semi-mute^ and any others who may desire it, neither attempt- 



36 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



ing nor desiring to limit them to oral and written speech in the 
acquisition of the several branches of general education." This 
latter plan has since been adhered to, and this year three 
teachers are employed in the work. 

it seems that in the early days of the school there was no fixed 
rule observed respecting the age for the admission of pupils. 
The Superintendent's report for 1853, in touching on this sub- 
ject, says; "The course of instruction which must be followed 
to impart to a deaf-mute a knowledge of language, requires con- 
siderable maturity of mind, as well as power of application on 
the part of the pupil. If the child is sent to this Institution 
before this maturity is attained, th^ fii'st years of instruction 
are not only lost, but great labor and care is imposed on the 
teacher. The age of twelve is regarded by experienced instruct- 
ors as the most favorable for commencing education, as by that 
time there is usually some maturity of mind, as well as of phys- 
ical health, and the pupil is prepared to make the most rapid 
advancement. It is much better for the pupils and for the In- 
stitution to admit none under the age of ten and generally to 
discourage their adrnission until they reach the maturity of 
twelve. This course has accordingly been generally pursued." 
From 1854 to 1865, applicants were required to be "between the 
ages of twelve and twenty years;" from 1866 to 1872, "between 
ten and twenty years;" from 1873 to 1880, "between six and 
twenty-one years," and since 1881, "between eight and twenty 
one years." 

Since 1891 a printed "Course of Study" has been in use in 
all the classes except the articulation classes. 

Since 1868, graduating exercises have been held at the close 
of the school year in June. The exercises consist of recitations, 
essays, orations, the presentation of diplomas, and the planting 
of the class ivy ; in consequence of the latter custom, the front 
walls of the Institution are almost covered with ivy. Diplomas 
are given to those who complete the full course of study ; and 
certificates of honorable discharge, to those who reach the 
ten-year limit without completing the prescribed course of study, 
and to those whose advancement does not justify promotion to 
the grammar department. "Graduation Day" is always one of 
interest, and the chapel is yearly thronged with the parents and 
friends of the pupils, and others interested in our work. 

In 1881, our chapel stage was remodeled. It has a working 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



87 



capacity of nearly 1,000 square feet. The front part, extending- 
about twelve feet from the foot-lights, is enclosed in a chancel- 
box scene, sufficiently commodious for purposes of daily wor- 
ship and evening lecture. The space between this and the stage 
background furnishes safe and convenient storage for our 
scenery and stage fittings, which are the work of a practical 
scenic artist. 

Since 1881 the platform in the chapel has been decorated 
every Sunday morning with flowers or a floral design made by 
our florist. For this pleasure we are indebted to Matthew 
Russell, a wealthy gentleman, who left a legacy of $20,000 to. 
the Institution. This sum was reduced by litigation and com- 
promise to $10,866, which came into the possession of the Insti- 
tution in 1879. It was decided by the Board of Trustees to 
erect a conservatory with a part of the money, and work was 
commenced in the spring of 1880. When completed it was 
christened the Russell Conservatory. The central structure is 
twenty-six feet square and thirty feet high. The wings on either 
side are each 26x22 feet. The following year an annex, 50x22 
feet, was built in the rear of the main conservatory, with a 
dome, twenty-one feet square. Later a propagating house, 
50x9 feet, was built, and a rose house, 66x20 feet. In 1886, after 
the conservatory was finished, the remainder of the Russell 
fund was used to construct a bronzed iron fountain in front of 
the main building ; costing, with the foundation and the iron 
fence around it, $1,172.77. 

The health of the school has been excellent in the past sixty- 
three years. Forty-two pupils died during attendance, three by 
drowning and two on the railroad. The majority brought with 
them the seeds of disease from their summer vacation, succumb- 
ing to them. The first death occurred in 1843, fourteen y^ars 
after the opening of school in 1829.- 

SUPERINTENDENTS. 

Horatio Nelson Hubbell, first Superintendent, 1827-1851, 
was born in Brookfield, Conn., September 9, 1779 ; was graduated 
at the Cornwall School in Conn., and licensed to preach in 
1827 ; was appointed in the same year to take charge of this 
Institution, then in embryo ; spent eighteen months at the 
American Asylum in preparing himself for his new duties, 
•which he assumed in 1829; resigned his position in 1851; was 



38 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



appointed superintendent of the Wisconsin Institution in the- 
same year, but resigned after a few months ; returned to Colum- 
bus and spent his time in philanthropic and literaiy labors ; 
died at his residence in this city on January 19th, 1857. In 
1882, the Ohio Deaf Mute Alumni Association presented a fine 
portrait of him to the Institution. 

Josiah Addison Gary, second Superintendent, 1851-1852; 'T«ras 
born in West Brookfield, Mass., July 29, 1813; was graduated at 
Amherst College in 1882 ; was appointed shortly thereafter 
teacher in the New York (Fanwood) Institution ; was licensed to 
preach in 1839 and ordained in 1840, preaching at various places 
as supply while teaching through the week until 1850, when he 
was installed as pastor of the Dutch Reformed Church of Hous- 
ton street, New York ; resigned both as teacher and pastor in 
1851 ; was appointed superintendent of this Institution the same 
year. The Alumni Association receiving a portrait of him from 
his children, had it retouched and reframed, and presented it to 
the Institution in 1885. 

Collins Stone, third Superintendent, 1852-1863, was born in 
Guilford, Conn., September 7, 1812; was graduated at Yale 
College in 1832 ; was appointed teacher in the American Asylum 
in 1833; took a private course in theological study and was 
licensed to preach ; was ordained soon after his removal to 
Columbus, preaching frequently in feeble parishes in the neigh- 
borhood and supplying an occasional vacancy in the churches 
in the city; resigned in 1863 to accept the Principalship of the 
American Asylum ; died from a blow of a locomotive in Hart- 
ford, Conn., on December 24, 1870. A memorial portrait of 
him was presented by the Ohio Deaf Mute Alumni Association 
to the Institution in 1889. 

George Ludington Weed, Jr., fourth Superintendent, 
1866, was born on the 9th of April, 1828, in Union county, 
Arkansas, then a territory, where his father was a missionary 
to the Indians ; was graduated at Marietta College in 1849, and 
went to Andover Theological Seminary ; was appointed teacher 
in this Institution in 1854, which position he resigned in 1861 
on account of his health ; resigning the position of superintend- 
ent in 1866, he subsequently became Superintendent of the 
Wisconsin Institution ; since resigning this position he has 
been teacliing in the Philadelphia Institution. 

Gilbert Otis Fay, fiftli Superintendent, 1866-1880, was born 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



39 



at Wadsworth, Medina Co., Ohio, November 30, 1834; went 
through Phillips Academy, Yale College and Andover Seminary 
successively, with honor ; was appointed teacher in this Institu- 
tion in 1862; received, in 1880, the honorary degree of Ph. D.^ 
from Adelbert College of Western Reserve University ; resigned 
the position of Superintendent in 1880 to accept a position a& 
teacher in the American Asylum, where he is still in service. 

Charles Strong Perry, sixth Superintendent, 1880-1882, was 
born at Barlow, Washington county, 0., in 1843; was graduated 
at Marietta College and became teacher in this Institution 
in 1865; resigned the position of Superintendent in the fall of 
1882, leaving the Institution in the hands of Rev. Mr. Talbot as 
acting Superintendent; retired to Santa Barbara, California; is. 
now teaching in the California Institution. Benjamin Talbot 
was born in Brooklyn, N. Y., May 22, 1827 ; was graduated at 
Yale College in 1849, and at its Divinity School in 1853 ; was 
teacher in Williston Seminary the next year; was appointed 
teacher in this Institution in 1854, resigning to become Princi- 
pal of the Iowa Institution in 1868, which position he held 
until 1878 ; was ordained to the work of the ministry in 1864 ;: 
returned to this Institution as head teacher in 1880. 

Amasa Pratt, seventh Superintendent, 1883-1890, was born 
in Essex, Conn., November 23, 1842 ; entered Williams College 
in 1859, but left to enter the army ; returned and graduated in 
1865; taught one year in the Pennsylvania Institution when he 
went to the California Institution where he remained eight 
years ; accepted the Presidency of the Oahu College at Hono- 
lulu, Hawaii, where he remained until 1888, when he was ap- 
pointed to the position of Superintendent of this Institution 
upon the recommendation of the Hon. L. L. Rice, then residing 
in Honolulu, through whose etl'orts the trades of printing and 
binding were established at the Institution during the term of 
his office as Supervisor of Public Printing ; resigned in 1890 and 
has since been engaged in business in this city. 

James Wilson Knott, eighth Superintendent, 1890-1892, was- 
born in Bedford, Coshocton Co., 0., August 14, 1850; was gj'ad- 
uated in 187.9 at Wooster University, through which he made 
his own way by teaching; was Superintendent of the Public 
Schools of Tiffin, Ohio, for eleven years ; has been a member of 
the State Board of School Examiners since 1889 ; was appoint- 
ed Superintendent of this Institution, with Mr. Patterson as 



40 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



Principal of the School ; resigned in 1892, and has since been 
Superintendent of the Public Schools of Wooster, 0. Robert 
Patterson was born in Oakley, Fifeshire, Scotland, December 
11, 1848. At the age of four, his parents emigrated to this 
country; was a pupil of this Institution from 1859 to 1865, 
when he left to enter the National Deaf-Mute College at Wash- 
ington, D. C. ; upon his graduation in 1870, he became a teacher 
in this Institution, which position he held continuously until 
appointed to his present position in 1890. 

Stephen Russell Clark, the present Superintendent, was born 
at Meadville, Penn., September 13, 1836 ; attended the Alleghany 
College, of which his father was the President, and was a stu- 
dent at Mt. Union College when the civil war broken out ; en- 
listed for three months in a college company which was assigned 
to the 86th 0. V. I., being elected Second Lieutenant; re-en- 
listed for a six month's call in 1862, as First Lieutenant in 
the Fifth Battalion 0. V. C; re-enlisted for three years in the 
13th 0. V. C. as Captain, was promoted as Major, Lieutenant 
Colonel and Colonel ; was assigned to the Third Brigade, Second 
Division, Cavalry Corps, Army of the Potomac, and participated 
with that command in all the engagements from the Wilder- 
ness to Appomattox Court House ; was admitted to the Northern 
Ohio M. E. Conference in 1872, filling various pulpits for 
eighteen years ; was appointed Chaplain of the State Girls' In- 
dustrial Home, near Delaware, Ohio, in 1889, which position he 
held when elected to his present position in 1892. 

SOCIETIES. 

The Clionian Society, having for its object improvement in 
"Sign Elocution, Composition and Debate," was organized in 
January, 1869, by the pupils in the upper classes, and has since 
been in continual existence. Since the year 1880, 215 mem- 
bers have been enrolled. The society has a private library of 
283 volumes for the use of its members. The officers for this 
term are : 

President, Clara Riuick. 

Vice President and Treasurer, Albertus Wornstaff. 

Secretary, Georgiana E. Lamson. 

Librarian, Carrie F. Lingle. 

Assistant Librarian, Albert W. Ohlemacher. 

Trustees, E. J. Scott, C. W. Charles and W. H. Zorn. . 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



41 . 



The Crandoii Club, a literary society composed of the younger 
boys, was organized in October, 1890 ; has at present 39 names 
on its roll ; its library has 162 volumes. The officers are ; 

President, Morse Albert. 

Vice President, George V. Bath. 

Secretary and Treasurer, George F. Flick. 

Librarian, Walter Reynolds. 

Assistant Librarian, Frank R. Jones. 

Trustees, Ira Crandon and W. H. Zorn. 

The Sarah Perry Club, a literary society composed of the 
younger girls, was organized in March, 1891. The Club is named 
in memory of Miss Sarah Perry ; who was a teacher in the Insti- 
tution, and dying in 1879 left a legacy of $100 for the express 
purpose of purchasing juvenile books for the use of the children 
with the income of the money. The sum of fifty dollars for a 
similar purpose, was also left by Miss Maria Wells who attended 
school in the early days of the American Asylum. The 
officers of the club are : 

President, Georgia na E. Lamson. 

Vice President, Carrie F. Lingle. 

Secretary, Clara B. Win ton. 

Treasurer, Lizzie M. Hewitt. 

Librarian, Lina Stathem. 

Trustee, A. H. Schory. 

The Young Ladies' Society of Christian Endeavor was organ- 
ized in November, 1892 ; has at present 79 members, 16 of whom 
are honorary members, 31 active and 32 associate members. 

The officers are : 

President, Clara Runck. 

Vice-President, Cosette Thompson. 

Recording Secretary and Treasurer, Georgiana E. Lamson. 

Prayer Meeting Committee, Cosette Thompson, Chairman, 
Anna Montgomery, Bessie B. McGregor, Sadie 0x1 ey and Hannah 
Ranz. 

Lookout Committee, Clara B. Winton, Chairman, Eva Spocker, 
Anna Hanks, Libbie Nooner and Ethel Zell. 

The Young Men's Society of Christian Endeavor organized in 
the same month, has at present twenty members. 

The officers are : 

President, Albert W. Ohlemacher. 
Vice President, B. E. Noble. 



42 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



Secretary, George V. Bath. 
Treasurer, William DeSilver. 

Prayer Meeting Committee, Ernest Zell and B. Wornstaff. 
Lookout Committee, Wra. DeSilver, B. E. Noble and Charles 
Wasserstrom. 

The Ohio Deaf Mute Alumni Association, "a society to pro- 
mote the general welfare of the mute community," was organ- 
ized in August, 1870. The interest of the occasion was enhanced 
by the presence of Governor R. B. Hayes, General Kent Jarvis, 
President of the Board of Trustees, Rev. Collins Stone, Princi- 
pal of the American Asylum, Dr. Harvey P. Peet, President of 
the New York Institution, Hon. L. J. Dudley, of Northampton, 
Mass., Rev. Dr. Brown, of Pittsburg, Pa., and Rev. Dr. Byers, 
Secretary of the State Board of Charities. It was through the 
earnest efforts of Dr. G. O. Fay that the Association was estab- 
lished upon a firm foundation. The Association holds its re- 
unions triennially at the Institution by invitation of the Board 
of Trustees. They continue three days, the first two being 
devoted to business and the last one to religious services and a 
farewell meeting, at which the older uiembers give reminiscences 
of their school days. One of the most interesting features of 
the reunions is an industrial exposition, at which all the articles 
exhibited are the products of the members. Premiums are 
awarded for the best articles exhibited. At the Eighth Reunion, 
held in September, 1892, the Association assumed the responsi- 
bility of gathering a fund for the proposed Home for the aged 
and infirm deaf of the State. The ofiicers^are: 

President, A. H. Schory. 

Vice President, C. W. Charles. 

Recording Secretary, Ed. H. Mcllvain. 

Corresponding Secretary, Ed. J. Scott. 

Treasurer, Ira Crandon. 

Executive Committee, W. H. Zorn, Chairman, John S. Leib 
and Ed. I. Holycross. 

Board of Managers of the Home Fund, Robert Patterson,^ 
President; R. P. McGregor, Secretary; Jacob Showalter, , Geo. 
Evans, John Barrick, Matt. Mullen, B. 0. Sprague, and Thomas 
McGinness, Treasurer. 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



4a- 



STATISTICS. 

The whole number of puijils who have been registered in this 
Institution, from its opening in the fall of 1829 until the present 
time, is twenty-five hundred and twenty-three. The alleged 
causes of their deafness are as follows : 



Causes. 




... .S3 




5 


Bilious fever 


. 8 


Blaek fever 


1 


Brain fever 


191 


Bronchitis 


2 


Calomel 


3 


Catarrhal fever 


26 


Chicken-pox 


5 


Cholera infantum 


2 


Colds 


56 




736 


Congestive fever 


.. 4 


Cramps in neck 


1 




7 


Cruelty 


2 


Diphtheria 


15 




2 




2 


Eczema 


1 




7 


Fever 


73 


Fits 


29 


Gout 


1 


Hydrocephaloua 


8 


Inflammation 


6 


Jaundice 


. . 1 


Lightning 


1 


Lung fever 


. . 20 



Causes. 



Measles 87 

Miasm 1 

Mumps S 

Neuralgia 2 

Not reported 121 

Paralysis 11 

Quinine 10 

Reported unknown 19(> 

Rheumatism 4 

Rickets 5 

Scarlet fever 259 

Scrofula 14- 

Sickness 130 

Small-pox 2 

Sores in the head 113 

Spasms . . . . ' S 

Spinal meningitis 43 

Spotted fever 16^ 

Swimming 1 

Teething 11 

Tonsilitis I 

Typhoid fever 45 

Tvphus fever 2 

White swelling, 5 

Whooping cough 42 

Worms 2" 

Yellow fever 1 



Total 2,523 



AGE WHEN DEAFNESS OCCUBEED. 



Age not reported. 495 

Congenital ' 736 

Under 1 year old 311 

Over 1 year old and under 2 years 325 

" 2 years " 3 " 222 

"3 " 4 " ]3»- 

"4 " 5 " 95 

"5 " 6 " 59' 

"6 " 7 " 35 

"7 " 8 " 39 

"8 " 9 " 20 

" 9 " 10 " 14 

"10 ". 15 " 20 

"15 " 18 " 13- 



Total 2,523 



44 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 



The following table, complied from the reports of the Alumni 
Association of the Institution, gives a partial list of the occupa- 
tions of the former pupils of the Institution : 



Occupations. 



Abstracter of title 1 

Agent 1 

Assistant undertaker 1 

Baker 1 

Barbers 2 

Base-ball players (professional) 5 

Beltmaker 1 

Blacksmiths 2 

Boilermakers 3 

Bookbinders 17 

Bookf older 1 

Bookkeeper 1 

Brewers 2 

Bricklayer 1 

Brickmakers 2 

Broom-maker 1 

Cabinetmakers 4 

■Car builders '. 4 

Card writer 1 

Carpenters 11 

■Carriage painters 2 

Car painter 1 

Cigarmakers 6 

Cloakmakers • 1 

Clerks 9 

■Coal oil dealer 1 

Compositor and pressman 1 

^Compositors 62 

■Cooper and boat builder 1 

Deputy Recorder 1 

Domestics 10 

Draughtsman ... 1 

Dressmakers 14 

Drivers 3 

Editors 3 

Engravers 3 

Farmers 76 

Farmers and shoemakers 2 

" compositor 1 

" harnessmakers ... 2 

Farm-hands 76 

Farm-hand, broommaker, and 

shoemaker 1 

Fireman (city fire department) . 1 

Foremen of printing offices .... 5 

" shoe shops. .... 6 

Foundryman 1 

Furniture varnisher 1 

Furriers 2 

<jrardener 1 

<jold rouger (watch factory) ... 1 

ijrlassworker 1 



Occupations. 



Grocers 2 

Gunsmiths 2 

Hardwood finishers 2 

Harnessmakers 10 

Harness shop owners 4 

Horse dealer 1 

Housekeepers 7 

House pttinter 1 

Iron-heater 1 

Iron pilt-r 1 

Iron steel workers , 2 

Knitter 1 

Laborers 29 

Lasters 3 

Lastmakers 2 

Lime deliverer 1 

Laundryman 1 

Machinists 6 

Manufacturer 1 

Marble polishers 4 

Miller 1 

Millman 1 

Miners 3 

Moulders 7' 

Nailmaker 1 

Nail sorter 1 

Nut cutter 1 

Oil pumper. 1 

Pad worker 1 

Painters 4 

Pantsmaker 

Paperfolders 

Papermakers 2 

Papermill packer 1 

Peddlers 5 

Photographer 1 

Plasterer 1 

Porters 2 

Portrait painters 2 

Postmaster 1 

Pressmen 2 

Principal 1 

Publishers 3 

Railroad foreman 1 

Reedworker 1 

Saloon-keeper 1 

Salve-makers 2 

Sausagemaker 1 



Sawmill and farm hand 

Seamstresses 

Ship builder 

Shoe factory 'hands 



THE OHIO INSTITUTION. 
OCCUPATIONS. — CONCLUDED. 



45 



Occupations. 



Shoemakers 31 

Shoe shop owners 14 

Show-case maker 1 

Soapmaker 1 

Stationary engineers 3 

Stonecutters 3 

Strawpressers 2 

Suear-maker 1 

Tailoresses 9 

Teachers 25 

Teachers and principals 3 

Teacher, founder of a school, 

and principal 1 



Occupations. 



Tailors 6- 

Teachers and housewives S- 

Teachers and fruit-growers. ... 5 

" " farmers 4 

" " peddler 1 

" " editor 1 

Teacher and laborer. . . 1 

Time-keeper 1 

Tinners 4 

Trunkmaker 1 

Wagon maker 1 

Waiter 1 

Woodcarvers 2" 



According to a recent table prepared by the Secretary of the- 
State Board of Charities, the current expenses, including sala- 
ries, of our Institution for the past twenty years amount to 
$1,608,270.22. A table prepared by the State Auditor gives the 
cost of the buildings and betterments at $850,000, exclusive of 
the value of the grounds. 



i 



I 




THE VIRGINIA INSTITUTION FOK THE EDUCATION OF THE DEAF AND DUMB (AND OF THE BLIND). 



4 



The Virginia Institution for the 
Education of the Deaf and 
Dumb (and of the Blind), 

STAUNTON, VIRGINIA, 
1839-1893. 



By THOMAS S. DOYLE, 

Principal of the Institution. 



THE VIEGINIA INSTITUTION FOR THE EDUCATION 
OF THE DEAF AND DUMB (AND OF THE BLIND). 

The first effort looking toward the education of any deaf 
person in Virginia was made in the year 1812, by Colonel 
William Boiling, of Goochland county. Two brothers and a 
sister of this Colonel Boiling, who were deaf, had been sent 
to Edinburgh, Scotland, for education in the school of Thomas 
Braidwood in the latter part of the last century. In a letter 
dated "Boiling Hall" (Goochland county, Va.), December 10, 
1841, and addressed to the Rev. Jos. D. Tyler, then principal 
of the Virginia Institution, Colonel William Boiling (above 
mentioned) writes as follows : 

It may be interesting to you to be informed of the education of my 
two brothers, John and Thomas, and that of ray sister Mary, who were 
all born in that situation. John Boiling, the oldest, was sent by my 
father, in the year 1771, to Edinburgh, and placed under the care and 
tuition of Thomas Braidwood. Thomas and Mary Boiling followed him 
in 1775. They all remained at his school during the Revolutionary War, 
and all returned to " Cobbs," in Chesterfield county, Va., the residence 
of my father, Major Thomas Boiling, in July, 1783. 

John died abont three months after his return. 

Thomas's acquirements were most extraordinary. He was a ready pen- 
man, of nice, discriminating judgment, of scrupulous integrity ; in all 
of his transactions his intelligence and tact in communication such as to 
attract the attention, entertain and amuse every company in which he 
associated, with the manners of a most polished gentleman ; his articu- 
lation so perfect that his family and friends and the servants understood 
him in conversation or in reading aloud. 

My sister's acquirements were equal to his, though her voice was not 
so pleasant ; yet she was cheerful, intelligent, entertaining, and indus- 
trious. She died in 1826 ; my brother Thomas in 1836, in the 70th year 
of his age. 

In the year 1812 John Braidwood, a grandson of my brother's pre- 
ceptor, arrived in the city of Washington. Governor Pleasants, of this 
county, then a member of the House of Representatives from this dis- 
trict, knowing the situation of my family, immediately informed me 
thereof. By my solicitation Braidwood visited me in the month of May 
in this year (1812). His plans were to rent a suitable house in Baltimore, 
hire servants and procure every necessary to board all his pupils. War 
having been declared by the United States against Great Britain, he was 
thereby, he said, cut off from receiving remittances from London (the 
fact was, he had no funds), and that several gentlemen in Philadelphia 
and Baltimore had engaged scholars to him (which was not the fact), 
and promised to advance him $6J0.00 (?) to enable him to establish his 
institution. 



4 



The Yirgima ItutUution. 



Upon this statement Col. Boiling accompanied Braidwood 
to Richmond and, upon his return, placed that sum in his 
hands, with the understanding that his institution would be 
open on the 1st of July following. Meanwhile, during his 
absence, Braidwood was to write to Col. Boiling " every week 
or ten days." The next heard of him by Col. Boiling was that 
he was in distress in New York and wanted funds to help him 
out of his trouble. Contrary to the advice of friends. Col. Boi- 
ling sent him the sum asked for — $600. 

In November of the same year (1812) Braidwood returned 
to Virginia and took charge of the education of the deaf chil 
dren of Col. Boiling and " was faithful and diligent, exhibiting 
unequalled evidence of his qualifications in his profession." 

My son's progress was truly gratifying until the following summer 
(1813), when, being in command of the ti'oop of cavalry of this county, I 
was ordered to Norfolk, where I remained six months in military service. 
From this time he began to relax, and on my return had almost aban- 
doned his duties. * * * He suddenly abandoned the Institution and 
fled to the North, did nothing, and in 1818 returned to Richmond jaenni- 
less, friendless, and scarcely decently clad. 

He applied again to Col. Boiling, who set him up in Man- 
chester, with Kev. Mr. Kirkpatrick, of that town, as a sort of 
trustee and general supervisor of the school. 

I again sent my son to him, under the care of the Rev. Kirkpatrick. 
They had five other pupils. He conducted himself for about six months 
to the entire satisfaction of the Rev. Kirkpatrick ; * * * but, before 
the third quarter ended, Mr. Kirkpatrick was obliged to dissolve all fur- 
ther connection with him. He died in the year 1819. 

A most pitiful story of wasted talent and opportunity ! 

The following letter from the Rev. Jos. D. Tyler to the edi- 
tor of the Southern Churchman (a journal which is still enjoy- 
ing a flourishing existence) of Richmond,Virginia, dated March 
4, 1842, enclosing a copy of the letter of Col. William Boiling, 
from which I have made such copious extracts, gives such suf- 
ficient reasons for dwelling at length upon the history of Braid- 
wood's career as an instructor of the deaf in Virginia that I 
deem it but proper to insert it in full in this paper : 

Virginia Institution foe the Deaf and Dumb, 

Staunton, March 4, 1842. 

To the Editor of the Southern Churchman. 

Deak Sib : It is generally, but erroneously, supposed that the first ex- 
periment in teaching the deaf and dumb was made in this country at 
Hartford, Connecticut. 



The Yirginia Institution. 



5 



The ensuing letter addressed to me at my solicitation by Colonel Wil- 
liam Boiling, of Goochland county, shows that a vigorous attempt to 
accomplish that philanthropic object was made at an earlier date in Vir- 
ginia. The attempt failed. It failed, not for the want of ample encour- 
agement in the shape of money and pupils, but through the unfaithfulness 
of the teacher. It failed, therefore, not for reasons which detract at all 
from the enlightened and persevering benevolence which originated the 
enterprise. It failed not through causes derogating in the least from the 
honor thus acquired by a citizen of Virginia of first establishing on this 
westei'n continent an institution for the deaf and dumb. 

Here is inserted the letter of Colonel Boiling to Mr. Tyler, 
the letter so freely drawn upon above. Mr. Tyler concludes 
his letter to the Southern Churchman as follows : 

The details given by Col. Boiling respecting his brothers and sister are 
interesting in themselves, and peculiarly so, as giving, so far as we know, 
the earliest instance of American deaf-mtites receiving an education. 

JOS. D. TYLEE. 

From what I can learn, I am of the opinion that Braid wood's 
methods differed, in a good many respects, from those intro- 
duced into America a few years later by the Rev. Thomas H. Gal- 
laudet. A member of the present (1893) corps of teachers in the 
Virginia Institution, Mr. Hart well M. Chamberlayne, a former 
pupil of this Institution, and also of the New York Institution, 
informs me that he knew, many years ago, three of Braid- 
wood's Manchester pupils, and that they did not seem to him to 
be nearly so well educated as others who had been taught in 
the American schools of later date. This may have been the 
result of the methods employed in their education, the pupils 
in question may not have been naturally intelligent, or, what is 
still more likely, their teacher may not have been at his best 
while they were under his instruction. Mr. Chamberlayne 
also knew one of the sons of Colonel Boiling, with whom he 
had many conversations. He was both brighter and seemed 
better educated than the pupils of the Manchester (sic) school. 
The signs used by all of these pupils of Braidwood differed in 
some respects, so Mr. Chamberlayne says, from those now in 
use among the deaf in America — the Hartford signs — but not 
so materially as to prevent his talking freely with those who 
used them. 

Dr. Lewis Chamberlayne, of Richmond, Ya., father of the 
gentleman mentioned above, had an older son — a deaf-mute — 
whom he sent to the American Asylum about the year 1833. 
In 1837, our Mr. Chamberlayne, the second deaf-mute child in 



6 



TJie Yirginia Institution. 



the family of Dr. Lewis Chambeiiayne, was born, and the father 
then, for the first time, seriously took into consideration the 
subject of getting a State school for the deaf established in 
Virginia. In pursuance of this idea, during the winter of 
1837-'8, while the legislature for that year was in session, he 
induced Mr. Barnard (subsequently president of Columbia 
College), then a teacher in the New York Institution, to come 
to Richmond, bringing with him several pupils of the New 
York school. 

Mr. Barnard made several exhibitions of these children — 
some in the State capitol, some in other suitable buildings in 
the city. At these exhibitions most, if not all, of the members 
of the legislature were present and evinced their apjjroval of 
them by the substantial evidence of passing the act of March 
31, 1838, which was the first actual step looking toward the 
establishment of the present Institution. It is an interesting- 
fact in connection with the visit of these children to Richmond 
that one of them was Miss Elizabeth Budd, who afterwards 
became the wife of the Rev. Thomas Gallaudet, lately rector 
of St. Ann's Church in New York and the founder of the 
Church Mission to the Deaf. 

The Hon. Alexander H. H. Stuart, of Staunton, was a mem- 
ber of this legislature, and was, with his colleague from 
Augusta county, Mr. D. W. Patterson, so active in support of 
the act of establishment that he was named a member of the 
first board of visitors. 

An additional act, passed March 27, 1839, provided that the 
Institution should be located " in Staunton, or within three 
miles thereof," and the sum of twenty thousand dollars was 
appropriated for " procuring a site and for erecting suitable 
buildings thereon." 

Ten thousand dollars of this appropriation was to be ex- 
pended annually. In addition to this the same bill included 
an approjsriation of ten thousand dollars j^)e?•a?^^i^^//^ "for sup- 
port." This last-named sum was placed to the credit of the 
president and dii-ectors of the " State Literary Fund," and 
none of it was to be paid out until the Institution was in 
" actual operation," and then only when " required by the wants 
of the Institution." 

The following-named gentlemen were appointed members 
of the first board of visitors, viz : Hon. A H. H. Stuart, 
James Points, Esq., Francis T. Stribling, M. D., and Nicholas 



The Vh'ginia Institution. 



7 



C. Kinney, Esq., of Staunton ; Hon. James McDowell (after- 
wards Governor of Virginia), of Rockbridge county ; Rev. Wm. 
S. Plummer, D. D., of Richmond, and Robert Gray, Esq., of 
Rockingham county. The first meeting of the board of 
visitors was held, at the call of the President of the Literary 
Eund, in Staunton, on Monday, May 6, 1839. Hon. A. H. H. 
Stuart was elected president of the board, and N. C. Kinney, 
Esq., secretary. 

At a meeting of the board held July 4, 1839, an order was 
passed directing " the secretary to proceed East and procure 
suitable plans, drawings, &c.," for the erection of buildings. 
Eive hundred dollars were appropriated to defray the expenses 
of the secretary and otherwise carry the order into effect. 

At a meeting held two days before this the proposition of 
James Bell, Esq., offering a donation of five acres of land to 
the Institution, with the privilege of purchasing as much more 
as was desirable at the rate of forty dollars per acre, was 
received and accepted. 

It was resolved at the same meeting that the building- 
should be " of brick, with stone foundations and a fii'e-proof 
roof." A building committee was appointed and a building 
" to cost $20,000 ordered to be i-eady for occupancy by July 
4, 1841." 

On July 5, 1839, " Harvey P. Peet, of New York, was elected 
principal of the Deaf and Dumb Institution, at a salary of fif- 
teen hundred dollars and board for self and family," and the 
sum of one thousand dollars was placed at the disposal of Dr. 
Peet " to purchase books and suitable apparatus for the use 
of the deaf and dumb." 

Dr. Peet declined this appointment, and Rev. Jos. D. Tyler, 
" a teacher of experience in the Hartford Asylum," was elected 
principal, at a salary of " twelve hundred dollars and board for 
self and family." At this meeting (October 1, 1839) it was 
ordered that the " schools be opened for the reception of 
pupils on November 15, 1839, a building suitable for this pur- 
pose having been rented in the town." 

The first pupil registered in the deaf mute department was 
Elizabeth Baker, of Pendleton county, the date of registration 
being November 30, 1839. Two days later the second pupil 
was registered. 

November 20, 1839, Mr. Tyler reported that a teacher was 
needed in the deaf-mute department, and " Job Turner, a 



8 



The Yirqinia Institution. 



pupil of tlie Hartford Asylum, was appointed " the first teacher 
of the deaf in the Virginia Institution. Mr. Turner, after a 
service in the Institution of nearly forty years' duration, retired 
from the profession and has since devoted his talents and 
energy to the work of a missionary to the deaf of the South, 
under the auspices of Saint Ann's Mission. In this work he 
is still (February 10, 1893) engaged, and the vigor of his 
appearance gives ground for the hope that he may long con- 
tinue in it. 

So the Virginia Institution for the Education of the Deaf 




THOMAS S. DOYLE. 



and Dumb and of the Blind (it has always been a dual Insti- 
tution) was launched. 

Since November 30, 1839, six hundred and eighty-three deaf- 
mute children have been received within its walls. 

During the four years of the civil war its buildings were used 
by the Confederate States authorities as a military hospital, 
but the school was continued, making use of the buildings of 
the Virginia Female Institute in Staunton. Grass-grown 
furrows and ditches on the lawn in front of the main drive are 
still plainly to be seen, marking the site of the tents in which 
convalescent soldiers lived during those troublous times. 



The Virginia Institution. 



9 



By reason of this double removal from and back to the 
buildings many of the archives of the school were lost, and it 
is impossible, almost, at this day to give a complete history of 
many interesting transactions. Since 1839 the Institution has 
received but one legacy, that of five hundred dollars from the 
late John J. Goodson, of Norfolk, Va., from the proceeds of 
which the Qooclson Gazette (printed and published by the 
pupils of the Institution) takes its name. The five acres of 
land donated for a site by Mr. Bell was given in 1839. 

By reference to the code of Virginia (ed. 1887) I find that 
special appropriations to the amount of one hundred and thirteen 
thousand nine hundred and twenty-one dollars and six cents 
($113,921.06) have been made by the legislature for the use of 
the Institution. The most of this money was expended for 
buildings, for repairs, for heating and lighting, etc. None of it 
was expended upon " salaries " or " support." 

In addition to the amount named above as specially appro- 
priated, the regular annuities for purposes of support have 
amounted in the fifty-three years of the existence of the Insti- 
tution to the gross sum of one million three hundred and thirty 
thousand dollars. A part — a comparatively very small part — of 
this amount (say $25,000) was expended for building purposes. 
* The remainder went for annual support. 

So we see that there has been appropriated in all, within a 
period of a litlle over fifty years, by Virginia to the education 
of her deaf children and her blind children the sum of one 
million four hundred and forty-three thousand nine hundred 
and twenty-one dollars and six cents ($1,443,921.06). Average 
for the fifty-three years, $28,878.43. As the Institution is dual, 
a large part of this went to the support of the School for the 
Blind. There is no way that I know of now of finding out ex- 
actly how much went to each class. 

The present annual appropriation is $35,000. There are 
present this session ninety-two deaf children and fifty-two 
blind, making a total of one hundred and forty-four of both 
classes. 

These are taught in seven classes, regularly graded. We 
have a teacher, of course, for each class. In addition there 
is a teacher of articulation and lip-reading, who has twenty-five 
pupils in her different classes. The pupils of the classes in 
articulation all attend the regular manual classes, and go at 
certain hours to the teacher of articulation. 



10 



The Virginia Institution. 



There is one teacher of free-hand and crayon drawing, and 
one of painting in oil. All of the girls are taught plain needle- 
work. For the boys there are shojjs in which are taught the 
trades of the carpenter, the cabinet-maker, the house-painter, 
the shoemaker, the tailor, aud the printer. There are two 
religious services for the children on every school-day. On 
Sunday there is the usual service in the morning, and immedi- 
ately thereafter a Sunday-school, in which the children are 
taught by their regular teachers, the same distinction of classes 
being observed as prevails in the school of the week. 

Sunday afternoon there is a lecture by one of the teachers 
(in turn). 

There are two Christian associations among the deaf pupils, 
one for the boys and one for the girls. They hold separate 
meetings every Sunday night. Both of these meetings are 
conducted by members of the associations, and both have done 
and are doing much good in the school. 

There are two literary societies in the Institution : one, 
" the De I'Epee," on the girls' side ; the other, " the Goodson 
Literary," on the boys' side. Both hold weekly meetings. 

The Institution, when first organized, had two principals, 
coequal in authority. Dr. Jos. D. Tyler had charge of the 
deaf -mate dejjartment, Dr. J. C. M. Merilatt of the blind * 
department. This arrangement continued until the death of 
Dr. Tyler, in January, 1852, when Dr. Merilatt was chosen 
principal of both departments. This arrangement has been 
maintained to the present day. 

The " Virginia Association of the Deaf '' was organized in 
Bichmond, Vii'ginia, in the month of July, 1891, holding its 
initial meeting in the Hall of the House of Delegates. 

The second annual meeting of this association was held in 
the Music Hall of the Institution in August, 1882. At tbis 
second meeting there was a largely-increased attendance upon 
the part of the deaf of the State and many names of new mem- 
bers were added to the roll. Of this association, Mr. Jno. W. 
Michaels is president and "W. C. Bitter is secretary. Its 
objects are chiefly to promote the interests of the deaf of Vir- 
ginia in every manner possible, and a good start has been made 
in this direction. 

The next annual meeting will be held in July, 1893, in the 
city of Lynchburg. 



The Virginia Listitution. 



11 



The following is a list of the principals from the foundation 
of the school to the present day : 

Jos. D. Tylee, Dr. J. C. M. Meeilatt, 1839-1852. 

Dr. J. C. M. Meeilatt, 1852-1863. 

John C. Covell, A. M., 1863-1871. 

Chaeles D. McCoy, 1871-1879. 

Leonid AS Poyntz, A. B., 1879-1880. 

Thomas S. Doyle, 1880-1882. 

J. C. Vaughan, a. M., M. D., 1882-1883. 

Chaeles S. Rollee, 1883-1884. 

Thomas S. Doyle, 1884-1893. 

Hoard of Directors of the Institution, January 1, 1893. 

Major T. C. Elder, Staunton, Va. 

Col. Geoege E. Dennis, Franklin Co., Va. 

Hon. H. G. MoFFETT, Rappahannock Co., Va. 

Hon. Geo. A. Mushbach, Alexandria, Va. 

Hon. A. D. Payne, Warrenton, Va. 

Hon. W. D. Quesenberry, Caroline Co., Va. 

C. W. S. TuENEE, Esq., Front Royal, Va. 

R. W. Watkins, Esq , Halifax Co., Va. 

B. L. Winston, M. D., Hanover Co., Va. 

Secretary of the Hoard. 
J. M. Kinney, Staunton, Va. 

List of Teachers and Officers, Jan. 1, 1893. 

Thomas S. Doyle, principal. 

G. D. Eueitt, teacher of First Class. 

L. G. Doyle (temporary), teacher of Second Class. 

H. M. Chambeelayne, teacher of Third Class. 
H. A. Beae, teacher of Fourth Class. 

Miss M. G. Teout, teacher of Fifth Class. 

Wm. M. Beekeley, teacher of Sixth Class. 

T. J. Williams, teacher of Seventh Class. 

Talbot B. Coleman, Painting in Oil. 

Miss M. G. Teout, Drawing (free-hand and crayon). 

Miss A. Haeman, Ai'ticulation and Lip-reading. 

Miss M. M. Keer, governess. 

Miss L. E. Argabeight, monitress and seamstress. 
Dr. B. M. Atkinson, physician. 



12 



The Yirginia Institution. 



O. R. FuNSTEN, steward. 
Mrs. A. Camp, matron. 

Foremen of the Shops. 

Wm. M. Berkeley, Printing Office. 

E. R. Moon, Carpenter, Cabinet, and Paint Shop. 

Amos Hollae, Shoe Shop. 

P. B. Graves, Tailor Shop. 



State of Indiana, 

Institution for the 

Education of the Deaf. 



J 



SEMI-CENTENNIAL SKETCH 



Jumping o'er times, 
Turning the accomplishment of many years 
Into an hour glass. 

—[Shakespeare : Henry V. 



Richard 0. Johnson. 



Printed ly the Class in Printing of the 
Indiana Institution for the 
Education of the Deaf. 



BOARD OF TRUSTEES. 

PRESIDENT, 

THOMAS L. BIIOWN Bedford 

SECRETARY, 

JOSEPH L. BLASE Cykthiana 

TREASURER, 

CHABLES E. HAUGH Indianapolis 



EDOCATIONAL AND BOSINEffl DEPARTMENT. 



SUPERINTEXDENT. 

RICHARD O. JOHNSON. 

INSTRUCTORS. 
NOBLE B. McKEE, A. M., Principal. 
WM. H. DeMOTTE, LL. D., Superintendent Sabbath School. 
WM. H. LATHAM, A. M., M. D., ALBERT BERG, A. B., 
NOBLE B. McKEE, A. M.. S. W. GILBERT, 

WM. H. DeMOTTE, LL. D., CHARLES KERNEY, A. B., 
.S. J. YAIL, ANNA HENDRICKS, 

HENRY BIERHAUS, SADIE J. CORWIN, 

AUGUST JUTT, IDA KINSLEY, 

N. F.'MORROW, a. B.. EYxV IIEISER, 

ORSON ARCHIBALD, A. B, EIJDORA BRIGHT, 
LETITIA BOOTH. 
LUCY E. ROBINSON, Teacher of Articulation. 
CARRIE MARVIN, Teaclier of Oral- Aural Class. 
CARRIE SMITH, Teaclier of Physical Culture. 
MARY" CORWIN, Teacher of Art. 

BOOK AND STORE-KEEPER. 

WILLIAM E. TODD. 



HOUSEHOLD DEPARTMENT. 



Matron— SARAH C. PETERS. 
Housekeeper -MARY" COUGIILIN. 
Physicians-JOHN E. LOCKRIDGE, M. D. 

MARTIN H. EIELD, M. D. 
-Supervisors of Boys— MOSES M. CLINTON. 

JAMES VAHEY. 
Supervisor of Girls— MAGGIE McCAULEY. 
Usher— ALICE WILSON. 
Nurse— MARY DIFFLEY". 
Watchm an— ABNER WOOLM AN. 
Watchworaan^SADIE BRANDENBURG. 



INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT. 



Instructor in Printing— EDWARD J. HECKER. 
Instructor in Joinery Work, etc.— JOHN P. BAKER. 
Instructor in Shoe and Leather Work— LOUIS HILDEBRAND. 
Instructor in Sewing— KATE GORMAN. 
Eoreman of Farm and Garden— WILLIAM LANGSTAFF. 
Engineer— LOUIS PRINZLER. 
Electrician— EDWARD FLAGER. 
Carpenter— CHARLES HOWARD. 




RICHARD O. JOHNSON 



THE INSTITUTION FIFTY YEARS AGO. 



A VIE-\V OF THE INSTITUTION DURING ITS FIRST YEAR, AS OUTLINED 
IN "THE FIRST ANNUAL REPORT, FOR THE YEAR 1844." 

To the llonorahle, the Geaeral A^semljly of the State of Indimui: 

The undersigned committee, appointed for the purpose, by the Board 
of Trustees of the Deaf and Dumb Asyhim of said State, do, in behalf 
of said Board under the requirement of the 13th seciion of an act entitled 
"An Act to establisli an Asylum for the Education of Deaf and Dumb 
persons in the State of Indiana," approved January 15, 1844, now report, 
that they have spared no pains in the discharge of the important duties 
assigned them by the last Legislature, and that their efforts to prepare 
the way for opening the Asylum have been attended with an encourag- 
ing degree of success. 

They have rented, for the use of the Institution ^or one year, at an 
expense of .$3i)L), a large, commodious and pleasantly situated building, 
with pleasure grounds of sufficient extent to afford the pupils ample op- 
portunity for exercise and recreation. Furniture, bedding and other re- 
quisite articles for the Asylum, have been purchased at a cost of about 
81,000. The services of a Steward and Matron, every way qualified to 
superintend its domestic concerns, have also been procured. Mr. William 
Willard, a deaf-mute, educated in the American Asylum at Hartford, 
Conn., has been engaged to take charge of the department of instruction, 
at a salary of $800 per annum. Mr. Willard was formerly employed, for 
several years, as an instructor in the Ohio Deaf and Dumb Asylum; and 
becomes to us recommended by the Briucipal and Trustees of that Insti- 
tution, as eminently fitted for the station he proposes to fill. He had 
charge of a small school of deaf-mutes in Indianapolis, during the 
winter of 1843-'4, and it is presumed no one who then witnessed the rapid 
improvement of the pupils under his instruction, will be disposed to 
doubt the extent or throughness of his qualifications as a teacher. 

The requisite preparatory arrangement having been previously made, 
the Asylum went into operation on tlie first Monday of last October. 
Fourteen pupils wei'e present at the commencement of the session. Two 
have since been added, making sixteen in all; which is the number now 
connected with the Institution. 
Of these 1 is from Carroll county. 

1 is from Fayette county. 

1 is from Vermillion county. 

1 is from Bandolph county. 

1 is from Clarke county. 

1 is from Dearborn county. 



6 



1 is from Monroe county. 

2 are from Henry county. 
2 are from Clarion county. 

2 are from Bartholomew county— and 

3 are from Tippecanoe county. 

The Trustees are happy to be able to say, that they regard the Asylum 
as having- opened with the most cheering prospects; and, that under the 
smiles of a kind Providence, nothing but tlie continued countenance and 
liberality of the Legislature will be necessary to insure its permanent 
success. An institution so benevolent in its design, certainly deserves to 
be regarded with the warmest interest and solicitude by all friends of hu- 
manity. No portion of the community has stronger claims on the sym- 
pathy, or stands more in need of the fostering care of the commonwealtu 
than the deaf and dumb. Experience has abundantly shown tluit, 
though deprived of speech and hearing, their minds can be ai)proached 
through other avenues by the lights of knowledge, and they can be there- 
by qualified for stations of usefulness and the highest rational enjoy- 
ments. Indeed, the dilTerence between the uneducated and the educated 
mute is almost incredible. The former "wends his weary way" through 
life in ignorance and obscurity — often an object of charity, and almost a 
burden to himself: but the latter, gladdened by the genial ray of knowl- 
edge, and fitted for the discharge of duly, becomes a blessing to his 
friends and to society, acts well his part as a member of tlie great iniman 
family — enjoys the present, and looks forward to the future with cheer- 
fulness and hope. 

But it is unnecessary to urge upon your honorable body the claims of a 
cause, which former assemblies have espoused with a zeal that does hon- 
or to the State; and the importance of which we know you will not fail 
to appreciate. 

AVe, therefore, close this report, by respectfully recommending that, 
with a view of promoting the more extensive usefulness of the Asylum, 
the present assessment for its benefit of two mills on the hundred dollars 
be raised to one cent on the hundred dollars. This would afford a sum 
sutticieutto enable the IJoard of Trustees to admit, free of charge, all in- 
digent pupils who might wish for the present to be received into the In- 
stitution — whereas, with the limited means now at the command of the 
Trustees, many such applications must be refused. I;et it be borne in 
mind that the parents and friends of those deaf-mutes, who would wish 
to enjoy the advantages of the Asylum, are, with comparatively few ex- 
ceptions, in indigent circumstances— and it seems hard that they should 
be shut out from the Institution for the want of means, when so light an 
assessment as one cent on the hundred dollars would put them in posses- 
sion of its privileges without expense. 

We would lurther recommend that the house and lot which have 
been rented for the present use of the Asylum, be made its permanent 
property by purchase, provided they can be obtained on just and equit- 
able terms. 

It will be perceived from section 11 of the act above referred to, that 
it devolves upon the House of Ilepresentatives to choose, during their 



"7 



present session, five trustees in lieu of those appointed at tlie last Gen- 
eral Assembly. All which is respectfully submitted. 
]U' nrder of the Board of Trustees. 

r. D. GURLEY. 
U. MAYITEW, 

Committee of the Board. 



TREASURER'S STATEMENT. 

The following is a statement of the expenses of said Institution incur- 
red under the action and direction of the Trustees, to-wit: 

For house and grounds for Asylum one year, from 1st of 



Sept., 1844, rented of Geo. ^Y. Stipp .Saoo 00 

Furniture purchased of Thomas Smith 853 75 

One cooking stove .fSO, and two other stoves $38.40, purchas- 
ed of Samuel Wainwright 68 40 

Two bills of furnitui-e, fixtures, and stationery for school 
rooms, furnished by William Wiliard, and allowed by 

Trustees 86 97 

Two books for Secretary and Treasurer, of Day, Tyler & Co. 2 88 

William AVillard'ri salary as Teacher, per annum 800 00 

■William Campbell as Steward, and Mrs. Campbell as Mat- 
ron, employed per annum at^f 75, for each pupil boarded at 
the Asylum per year, suppose 15 scholars 1,125 00 



.$3,237 00 



The amount of receipts or moneys collected since the organization 
by the Trustees are: 

Receipts on account pupils at the Asylum $209 25 



The above statement of expenditures and moneys collected made in 
accordance with the requisition of the 13th section of the act to establish 
said Asylum, has no reference to the amount paid to teacher for past 
services under joint resolution, nor to any receipts of funds frorj taxes 
assessed and collected for this object. 

In the collection and payment of the revenue of last year into the State 
Treasury, no distinction was made, in the amount, so as to show what 
was collected on account of deaf and dumb. It is estimated that of the 
revenue thus paid, the proper proportion collected on this account, was 
about $2,122.75, which, after deducting the amount paid to William 
Wiliard, by authority of joint resolution, $1,168.75, would leave in the 
State Treasury of this fund about $954. 

The Trustees in creating the expenses above mentioned, have antici- 
pated this fund as well as that to be collected, with the revenue of the 
present year; and have had some advances from the State Treasury, (as 
appeared to be contemplated by the law organizing the Institution, and 
indispensably necessary to carry their plans into effect), leaving the 
principal portion of said expenses yet to be met, relying upon the present 



8 

General Assembly to make such appropriation as will meet all expendi- 
tures and obligations incurred by the Trustees. 
All of which is respectfully submitted. K. MAI' HEW, 

Treaxurev of Board of Trustees 
of Asylum for Edueutioii of Deiif and Dumb. 



EULES. 

In taking charge of the general interest of the Asylum, and endeavor- 
ing to make provision for the improvement and comfort of its inmates, 
the Board of Trustees have adopted the following rules and regulations 
for its government and economy: 

COMMENCEMENT AND LENGTH OF THE SESSION. 

There shall be but one session per annum, commencing on the first 
Monday of October, and closing on the last day of July. 

TIME OF ADMISSION. 

The regular time for receiving pupils into the Asylum shall be the 
week immediately preceding the first Monday of October. 

JLENGTH OF THE WHOLE COLKSE. 

The ordinary course of instruction in the Asylum shall extend 
through a period of five years; and scholars having passed creditably 
through this course shall receive from the Principal certificates accord- 
ingly. 

EXPENSES. 

Pupils from this State shall be provided for by the Institution in all 
respects, clothing and traveling expenses excepted, at the rate of 
Seventy-five Dollars per annum; and pupils from other States at the rate of 
One hundred Dollars per annum. Payment shall be required semi-annu- 
ally in advance. No deduction shall be made from the annual charge 
in consequence of absence on any account whatever, except sickness, nor 
for vacation. Pupils shall be at liberty to reside during the vacation in 
the Institution without extra charge; but in case of sickness, either 
during the session or in vacation, the necessary extra charge sliall be 
made. 

AGE OF APPLICANTS. 

Applicants for admission into the Asylum shall be between the ages of 
ten and thirty years. The Institution will not hold itself bowid to receive 
any not embraced within this rule, but may do so at discretion. 

STATE PUPILS. 

Application on behalf of indigent pupils for assistance from the State, 
shall be made to the Board of Trustees, through the Secretary of State; 
and such application shall be accompanied with a ritten declaration 
from the board of county commissioners of the county in which the ap- 
plicant resides, certifying that the necessities of the case are such as to 
justify the Trustees in ordering the assistance desired. 



FIFTY YEARS' PROGRESS. 



"Memories feeble to retrace 
Yesterday's immediate flow, 
Find a dear, familiar face, 
In each hour of long ago. 

'Tis a long time ago, is 1830, and yet in tliat year amidst the streams 
and forests of the uncnitivated >State of Indiana were living persons not 
only deaf and therefore mute, but I presume also very dumb, for in this 
State at that time there were no schools wherein they could be educated 
— therefore they must have been deaf-mute and dumb. According to 
the census of that year there were in the State 144 deaf-mutes. In 1840, 
they had increased to 312, and still no provision had been made to edu- 
cate them. Whether it seemed dark to tne people at that time, it sertain- 
ly does to us looking back through the vista of vanishing years — intel- 
lectual darkness and gloom surrounding the 312 deaf-mutes who were 
with the people and yet not of them. 

But as 'tis darkest just before dawn, so in 1840. The dawn was soon 
to burst, the hrst golden rays of the light of education for the deaf were 
soon to tinge with humanity the hills and dales of our beloved State, 
causing happiness and perfecting citizenship from lake to river. It came 
in 1841, scintillated a few brief moments and then died away, leaving 
once more only the darkness. 

From the very commencement of the State's organization, there were 
not wanting those who kindly remembered our deaf and dumb, and 
fondly desired to introduce into this, the advantages for education which 
were enjoyed by the more favored mutes of other American Common- 
wtialths. Yet there were so many objects demanding attention in the 
infancy of political institutions, that no provision was made by the 
Legislature for the education of our mutes even in other State Asylums, 
where they would have been gladly received. Then came the excite- 
ment of speculation, which, for several years, entirely engrossed the 
public attention. And it was not till the time of the State's deepest 
adversity, that the cause of mute education received its first impetus. 
In the fall of 1841, Mr. William C. Bales, since deceased, then the sheriff 
of Vermillion county, phiced his mute son in the Ohio Institution. The 
visit which he then paid that Asylum., interested him more deeply than 
before in the enterprise of educating the d'^af and dumb. The next 
year he was elected to represent his county iu the Legislature. 

Some time during the year 1841, James McLean, a mute, and a reputed 
graduate of the New York Institution, commenced a school in Parke 
county. Tills school was continued for more than a year, but at no 
time contained more than six pupils, and tiiree or four of these were 
taught gratis. Mr. Wm. C'rumpton, of Attica, was one of his patrons; 



10 



and from his representations Mr. Coffin, then the representative from 
Parke, became interested in the subject. 

A joint resohition was snbseqnently passed which provided for Mr. 
McLean's compensation. As it is the first act of the Legislature in re- 
..gard to the deaf and dumb on tire statute books of Indiana, and as it 
freely and fully asserts the obligation of the State to educate them, it is 
Irere inserted entire: 

^'A Joint Resolution for the benefit of JaineH BIcLenn, of Parke counti/, Indi- 
ana, a deaf and dumb person. Apjiroved, Febriiary 11, 1842. 

"Whereas, It has been represented to this General Assembly that said 
James McLean is a deaf and dumb school teacher, and as such has been 
teaching- deaf and dumb orphans and indigent children of Indiana for 
fifteen months past, without any adequate compensation: and, whereas, 
it has been farther represented to us, that said McLean is poor, and be- 
lieving as we do, that due encouragement should be given to such laud- 
able efforts to ameliorate as far as possible the condition of an unfort- 
unate portion of our people, and that efforts of that kind on the part of 
a deaf and dumb citizen of Indiana should not be received as a gratuity 
by the State, 

"-Be it resolved by the General Axxeinhli/ of Indiana., That the Treasurer of 
State be, and he is hereby authorized to pay to said James McLean the 
sum of two hundred dollars out of any moneys in the Treasury not other- 
wise appropriated, as a compensation for services rendered as aforesaid." 

At the meeting of the Legislature in 1842-3, the two members above 
referred tu consulted together, and, as the result of their deliberations, 
Mr. Bales, on the Ith of February, presented a bill which, after some 
amendments, passed both branches. It reads as follows: 

'■^An Act to provide meansto support a Deaf and, Dumb Asylum in the State of 
Indiana. Approved February 13, 1843. 

"Sec. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly <f the State <f Indiana, 
That, in addition to the sum of five cents levied on each one hundred 
dollars of property taxable in this State for the ordinary expenses ol' the 
State government, there shall be levied two mills additional on each 
one hundred dollars' worth of property in this State, for the purpose of 
supporting a deaf and dumb asylum, aiid the necessary expenses attend- 
ant tliereon, in this State. 

"Sec. 2. Said sum of two mills shall be collected in the same funds, and 
paid into the treasury, in the same manner as the State revenue, and 
shall be paid out by the Treasurer of State, for the education [and] main- 
tenance of deaf and dumb persons of Indiana, pursuant to existing pro- 
visions of law. 

"Sec. 3. This act to be in force from and after its passage and publica- 
tion in the Journal nnd Sentinel." 

This was passed by the unanimous consent of all parties. Indeed, to 
■enumerate its friends would be to mention the names of the whole 
Legislature; and one as much as another, probably, deserves the credit of 
its enactment. It was .i noble act, and the first instance on record 
where a people were taxed for such a purpose! 



WILLIAM WILLARO. 



11 



AVILLIAM AVILLARD. 

At this point ;i familiar tigure appears on tlie scene. William Willard, 
a deaf-mute, a graduate of the American Asylum at Hartford, and a 
teacher in the Ohio Institution, came to Indianapolis for the purpose of 
establishing a private school for the deaf. Consultation with leading cit- 
izens followed and a meeting was called, the friends of the project com- 
ing from all parts of the State. The sense of the meeting was evidence 
by the following resolution: 

^'liesolved, That the successful example of Ohio and other sister States, 
in providing for the instruction of the deaf and dumb within their 
bounds, is in the highest degree creditable and worthy of onr prompt im- 
itation, and that, as citizens of Indiana, we are gratified with the interest 
taken in it by the last General Assembly in the enactments contemplat- 
ing provision for an asylum for deaf-mutes in this State, of wliich there 
are, according to the last census, three hundred and twelve. 

''Resoloed, That the testimonials submitted by William Willard from 
his Excellency. Governor Shannon; H. JST. Hubbell, Esq., superintendent 
of the Ohio Deaf and Dumb Asylum: Eev. Dr. Hoge and other distin- 
guished gentlemen of Ohio, showing that William Willard has been for 
many years an instructor of deaf-mutes in that State, and has justly gain- 
ed for himself a high renutation as a teacher — that he is a gentleman of 
good moral cliaracter, of the first respectability and every way worthy of 
tlie most favorable consideration in reference to the instruction of deaf- 
mutes, are highly satisfactory: and we are gratified with the visit of a 
gentleman, himself deaf and dumb, so highly recommended by those who 
have been connected with an institution of such distinguished repute as 
the one at Columbus, Oliio. 

"liesoloed, That we approve of Mr. Willard's proposed visit to different 
parts of the State for the purpose of communicating with deaf-mutes 
and their friends in relation to their instruction in this State: and that 
we recommend that he should, after such a visit, commence a school for 
deaf-mutes on a small scale at Indianapolis preparatory to such further 
action of the Legislature and other encouragement as may be given for 
the establishment of an asylum: and that in such visit we cordially rec- 
ommend Mr. Willard to the kind attention and hospitality of the citi- 
zens of Indiana." 

This was in May, 1843, on the 30th. During the following summer Mr. 
"Willard traveled here, there, everywhere, urging and entreating, not 
donations but ])upils. He bore his own expenses. Easy in manner and 
of affable address, he succeeded admirably, and in October following he 
opened his school with twelve scholars, who, while paying for boarding, 
paid nothing for instruction. 

"(iarcU'uer bright ivmn Eden's bower. 
Tend with care tluit lily flower; 
To its leaves and root infuse 
Heaven's sunshine, Heaven's d!ws. 
'Tis a type, and 'tis a pledj;e, 
Ol; a Clowning privilege." 

The^General Assemlly convening in the following December, its mem- 



12 



bers reflecting the awakened interest of the people, still further enhanc- 
ed by the glorious work already commenced, felt itself in duty bound to 
take charge of and defray the expenses on behalf of the State of the 
private school now under way. A board of incorporating trustees con- 
sisting of nine members,was appointed January 15, 1844, and at once 
proceeded to organize the ''Indiana Asylum for Deaf and Dumb." Mr. 
Willard, who had performed such mighty work, was naturally and justly 
the chief officer with title of principal, and under the new arrangement 
the first session was commenced October 1st, 1844, in rented quarters, "a 
large and commodious building with pleasure grounds of sufficient extent 
to afford the pupils ample opportuutiy for exercise and recreation," the 
same having been obtained at a rental of .$300 per year. The number of 
pupils starting in was sixteen, coming from the following counties: 
Bartholomew, 2; Henry, 1; Carroll, 1; Marion, 2; Clarke, 2; Monroe,!; 
Dearborn, 1; Ilandolph, 1; Fayette, 1; Tippecanoe, 3; Vermillion, 1. 

The members of the incorporating Board of Trustees were His Excel- 
lency James Whitcomb, Royal Mayhew, Esq., Hon. John H. Thompson, 
Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, Rev. Phineas D. Gurley, Rev. Love Jameson, 
Livingston Dunlop, M. D., Hon. James Morrison and Rev. Pres. Matt- 
hew .Simpson. The question of a permanent location was left open, and 
the Governor was authorized to receive propositions on the subject. Mr. 
Willard was allowed a compensation from the commencement of his 
school. 

It has been usual to date the origin of the Institution from October 1, 
1844, because it was then formally taken \nider the control of the State. 
It had really been in successful operation for a year previously, and its 
history really dates from October, 1843. 

It had been contemplated from the first, to ultimately appoint a Prin- 
cipal who could hear, and speak. This intention was carried out, in 
June, 1846, by the appointment of James S. Brown, his duties to com- 
mence on the 1st of August following. The highly valued services of 
Mr. Willard were continued in the capacity of an assistant. 

The school remained in its first quarters until October 1st, 184(5, when 
the number of pupils pressing for admission became so great steps were 
taken to procure larger and more commodious quarters. On October 
1st, 184(i, the school was opened in a large three-story building of impos- 
ing appearance and for which a rental of lifSOO per year was paid. A 
permanent location not having been agreed upon, a warm contest now 
sprang up between various parts of the State as to who should have the 
location, the rivalry principally being between Bloomington and Indian- 
apolis. The citizens of the former place made an offer of a donation in 
land and cash amounting to nearly $4,000 and the commissioners of the 
county agreed to appropriate as revenue to the Institution one cent on 
each one hundred dollars' worth of real and personal property within the 
county. The superintendent at the time, Mr. James Brown, entered into 
quite an extensive correspondence with the heads of other similar insti- 
tutions in the United States, concerning the location, and laid the same 
before the Committee of Education to which the question had been re- 
ferred. They finally decided not to accept the liberal offer of Blooming- 



13 



ton, and thereupon located the Institution at Indianapolis because of^its 
being the capital, a railroad center accessible from all parts of the State, 
and for other good and sufficient reasons. 

At this same session of the General xVssembly steps were taken for the 
purchase of a site, and the board of trustees, after diligent and careful 
search, selected the present location, eighty-four acres being purcliased 
at first and subsequently thirty-eight additional, the whole costing 
.$6,000. This land is now all held by the Institution, save eighteen acres 
that were transferred to the Indiana Female Reformatory in 1869, and 
cne-quarter of an acre transferred to the C, St. L. & P. K. R. in 1883." 
The balance of the land originally acquired is now valued at .f 276,000 
The wisdom of the selection could not have been greater, for a more de- 
sirable location, all things considered, could not have been made in or 
around Indianapolis. 

After securing the ground, the trustees turned their attention to build- 
ing, and secured an increase of the rate of taxation. Previously, at the 
session of the Gener .il Assembly of 1844-5, the assessment was raised 
from two to five mills on each hundred dollars' worth of property in the 
State. It was now raised from five to fifteen mills. This was to provide 
for the erection of the permanent buildings. Money sufficient was ob- 
tained and buildings with a capacity of 160 to 175 were at once erected 
and were ready for occupancy October 2nd, 1850. During the school year 
previous the number of pupils ni attendance was 125, but during the 
first year in the new building the number increased to 141. 

Thus fairly started, the school thrived and grew. Divine Providence 
seemed to smile upon it and its yearly course was constantly in advance. 
The deaf seeking admission grew in numbers as the State's population 
increased, and repairs, alterations and new buildings were added from 
time to time until now, in the spring of 1893, the school boasts of accom- 
modations for 350 pupils; of twenty-one teachers ill the intellectual and 
four in the industrial departments; of 104 acres of land, valued at 
$276,000; of buildings valued at $240,000; one of them being a large, fine, 
new school-house containing twenty-four school-rooms and library, lect- 
ure and art rooms. 

When the school was first opened, it vvas maintained upon the proceeds 
of a tax of two mills upon each one hundred dollars' worth of property, 
which was voted by the General Assembly, and which was increased 
from time to time until, in 1852, it yielded an income of nearly $40,000 
per year. When the State constitution was adopted in 1851, the tax was 
discontinued, and the support of the Institution made a direct charge 
upon the State Treasury, where it remains to-day. The amount appro- 
priated by the General Assembly for maintenance and repairs has varied 
from time to time, but now amounts to $65,000 annually. 

In the beginning pupils were charged for board and tuition, except they 
filed a certificate setting out the fact of tiieir poverty. This was degrad- 
ing and shameful and was so considered, and in a very short time the 
law was changed and everything made free to all those too deaf to be 
educated in the common schools. And in this liberality Indiana has the 
proud distinction of having been the first State in the Union to throw 



14 



open her education.il doors to the deaf, absolutely without cost to them. 
And so it is to-day, everything is free, the (State making no charge, only 
requiring that pupils shall pay their transportation to and fro, and fur- 
nish their own clothing and even where this cannot be done, the !State 
provides and charges it to the county from whence the pupil comes. 

Mr. Willard served as principal two years, being succeeded by James 
S. Brown, with the title of superintendent, a man of most sterling qual- 
ities, faithfulness of purpose and love for the work. Mr. "Willard con- 
tinued his connection with the school, however, as a most valued in- 
structor, for twenty years. In 1852, Mr. ]5rown resigning, the Reverend 
Thomas Maclntire was appointed superintendent and continued as such 
for twenty-seven years. Under liim the Institution made its name and 
fame. He loved the school and tlie school loved him. Together they 
kept pace, marching steadily onward and upward, placing the banner of 
the Institution in lofty position, there being emblazoned on its folds 
three stars, one for faithful and loving care, one for thoroughness of 
educational work and one for purity. Following him came AVilliam 
Glenn and Eli P. Baker, each serving five years as superintendent, the 
latter resigning in July, 1889, at whicli time the present superintend- 
ent was appointed. 

The history of the'Indiana Institution is a grand history — a history of 
men and women of pure and lofty ideas and deeds; a history of a most 
generous State;' a history of eighteen hundred and seventy-five boys and 
girls who have^entered its portals seeking light intellectually, spiritually, 
industrially; a history of mothers and fathers who with heart-ache and 
sob have delivered' their little ones into strange hands that they might be 
taught the way to^^eternal life through enlightened intellect; a history 
that inakes>;s wish for success and happiness in future well-doing. 
Many of the men and women who have watched the progress with eager 
eyes, many of^^the boys and giris, have passed beyond the dark river, and 
we feei 'tis well with them because of the instruction here given and 
received. 

"I/Oiig li\ (■ till' jiiiiiil sriKiiil ! liiviiii; nut year hy year 
Recruits to true iiiaul.O hI and woiuaulioixl dear: 
Krave boy.s, modest maidens, in beauty sent tortli, 
The living ejiistles and i)iO()f of its wortli! 

"In and out let the yo>ing life as steadily flow- 
As in broail Nai rag; n^elt, the tides come and go; 
And its sons and its d uight 'rs in p/airie and town 
Remember its honor an 1 ginrd its renown!" 




REV. THOMAS MACINTIRE. 



THE INSTITUTION AS IT IS NOW. 



EXTRACTS FROM "RULES AND REGULATIONS," "OUTLINES," AND SUPER- 
INTENDENT'S REPORT lOR THE FISCAL YEAR 
ENDING OCTOBER 31, 1892. 



INTELLECTUAL DEPxiliTMENT. 

THE ATTENDANCE. 

The at.tendance during the fiscal year is shown by the following table: 

Boys. Girls. Total. 

Number admitted 169 154 323 

Number discharged 15 18 33 

Number remaining on roll 154 136 290 

Number in attendence at end of year 147 120 267 

Leaving enrolled and not in attendance 7 16 23 

NEW PUPILS. 

The new pupils admitted during the year were as follows: 

Eoys 23 

Girls 19 

Total 42 

Pupils who had been out of school for one or more years, but who 
returned during this year were as follows: 

Boys 4 

Girls 4 

Total 8 

The causes of deafness and ages at which it occurred in those new 
pupils will be shown by the following table, as will also the degree of 
deafness, the number to whom instruction was given previous to admis- 
sion, and what power of articulation is possessed by them. The power 
of hearing in many of those marked 2Jrtrti(V(/^i/ rfm/ is very feeble indeed, 
as is also the power of articulation in many of these marked as speaJdng 
a few icords phiinly^ and need hardly be taken account of in the majority 
of cases. 



16 



Congenital 

ScaneHfever 

Brain fever 

Spinal fever 

Cerebro-spinal meningitis 

Catarrhal fever 

Gathering in head 

Eeinittent fever 

Malarial fever 

Typhoid fever 

Spotted fever 

Measles 

Falls 

Not deaf 



Total 42 



15 



Ages at which Deafness 
Occurred. 



28 



13 



15 



The ages at the time of admission were as follows: 



Eight years 8 

Nine years 10 

Ten years 6 

Eleven years 2 

Twelve years 3 

Thirteen years 1 

Fourteen years 1 

Eif teen years 2 

Nineteen years 1 

Twenty years 1 



N ON- ATTENDANCE. 

The matter of non-attendance is a serious evil; and one that should be 
remedied in some prompt, efficient manner. The non-attendants are of 
two classes: Those who enter the school but do not remain as long as 
they might and should, and those who do not enter at all. So far as the 
former class is concerned, tlie records of the Institution show that since 
November 1, 1884, 127 pupils liave entered, remained a year or two, or 
more, and then dropped out without discharge, when they were entitled 
to longer continuance. A small per cent, of this number can be account- 
ed for by deaths and removals from State, but fully 85 per cent, of it 
must be charged up to the foolish whims of the child, or to neglect or 
cupidity of the parent. The following table will show this part of the 
evil at a glance: 



17 



Enrolled November 1, 1884. 
lN"ew pupils admitted since 



319 
333 



Total pupils in eight years . . 
Discharged since November 1, 1884 



652 
258 



Leaving enrolled 

Actual attendance November 1, 1892 



394 
267 



Showing "drop outs" to be 



127 



The census of 1890, an account of which is given elsewhere, showed a 
total of 1,780 deaf-mutes in the State. Of this number, 69 were between 
one and six years of age, or under school age (8 to 21) at this time, and 
726 were between six and twenty-one years of age. Of the 726, there were 
in the school at the time, or liad been previously, 298, and since 1890 115 
more have been admitted, thus leaving 313 deaf-mutes in Indiana who 
have never been in this school at ail. If we allow 20 per cent, for errors 
and for those who have attended other schools for the deaf, 250 still re- 
main, who have never received the benefits of school training, and I re- 
gard this estimate as very low. Adding to this number the 127 "drop 
outs," we have 377, which represents the non-attendance. 



Tne State supports an institution for the proper training of the deaf 
at great expense, not only for the good of the deaf themselves, but for the 
welfare and .prosperity of itself. If parents and guardians do not avail 
themselves of advantages offered, it should certainly be the duty of the 
State to step in and compel the attendance of their children, as a matter 
of self-protection. The welfare of the child must be considered more 
sacred that the right of the parent to control it. 



At the beginning of the school year in 1890 a new course of study was 
arranged; the school period was re-arrauged into five primary, two 
intermediate and tliree academic grades, each grade taking one year. 
The manner of grading was changed, as was also the manner of teaching. 
The upper four grades were provided with four teachers, each on special 
subjects, the classes rotathig from one teacher to another. Out of 270 
pupils who were in school the preceding June and who were entitled to 
return, 144 were denied advancement because of not meritmg il. In 
short, a complete revolution iu school work took place, and we anxiously 
looked forward for results. We have not been disappointed. Close and 
faithful attention was given to the work by teachers, who had much to 
do because of the change. Text-books during the first tln-ee years being 
done away with, original work had to be provided by them. History and 
geography took thu form of evolution, and began in original work by the 
teachers, who, taking the Institution as a starting place, worked outward 
until the text-book was reached. Our course of study was termed by 
competent critics as "rather high" for our classes, but the pupils in the 
main mastered it, as is shown by their better averages than under the old 



COMPULSORY EDrCATION. 



THE SCHOOL AVOKK. 



18 



system. Everybody hewed to the line as closely as circumstances vvould 
permit, and the result has been most gratifying to all concerned. 

One of the greatest helps in the school-room work was Tlie ScJtool-room 
Aid, a sixteen-page magazine which we publish fortnightly. As its name 
implies, it was designed and especially arranged for class-work in the 
school-rooms, either taking tlie place of or supplementing the ordmary 
text-book, and devoted almost wholly to language. 

Six teachers' institutes have been been held during the year. At each 
meeting specially prepared papers have been read, which were followed 
by critical discussion. Everything pertaining to school-rooom work has 
been considered, and the good resulting thei-efrom has been great. 

One year ago attention was called to the fact that seventeen classes 
were being taught by fourteen teachers, this being accomplished by 
having three classes tauglit in the afternoon for two and a half hours 
by regular morning teachers, who served without extra compensation. 
x\s this was all the instruction these classes received, the arrangement 
was very unsatisfactory, fair to neither pupil nor teacher. To remedy 
this matter, three new teachers have been employed. 

0UAI--AU11AL CLASS. 

In my last annual report I wrote as follows: "I am still of opinion 
that a purely oral department should be started, separate and distinct 
from the rest of the school. Wiiile I believe that of any given number 
of deaf-mutes taken at random, only a minority, and, perhaps, only a 
small minority can be nuccessfalli/ educated by the purely oral method, 
which excludes signs, still, it is that minority which I wish to provide 
for, and I tliink we have it at the j)resent time in our school." 

It has been found impossible under existing conditions to start an oral 
department, '-separate and distinct" from the rest of the school, but the 
next cest thing has been done in the establishment of an oral-aural 
class. A young lady of jSew York, who possesses a good knowledge of 
the work, has been called to take charge of the class, and is making 
a good beginning. I believe the end of the year will demonstrate the 
wisdom of the '•innovation." Every pupil entering school should be 
educated by this method and taugiit to speak, if it is possible to do so 
— it is his right: it is our duty. But as stated above, I believe this is im- 
practicable with tlie greater number -it remains then for us to ascertain 
who can and who cannot, be siu'cessfully educated by it. To do this 
each new pupil should be given ii fair chance for speech and education 
by speech, lirst; afterward, education by other methods, if failure results. 
We must bear in mind that there are deaf and semi-deaf; muteand semi- 
mute — that a method beneficial to one may not be to another and vice versa _ 
To accomplish the greatest good for the greatest number, the very broad- 
est latitude must be allowed, and a school to be successful must not be 
bound down to any one, or any two methods. In order to attain this 
success, this Institution bases its work on the following 

SYSTKM OF INSTKICTION. 

The general system of instruction under which tliis school works is 



f 



19 



known as the "Combined S ystem," wherein the Mannal Method and Oral 
Method are both used. Articulation and speech-reading are regarded as 
very important, but mental development and the acquisition of language 
are regarded as still more important. It is believed that in many cases 
mental development and the acquisition of language can be better at- 
tained by some other method than the Oral, and, so far as circumstances 
permit, such method is chosen for each pupil as seems best adapted to 
his individual case. Articulation and speech-reading are taught where 
the measure of success seems likely to justify the labor expended. 

The general instruction of the pupils is carried on chiefly by the Man- 
ual Method (sign language, the manual alphabet and writing). Part of 
them receive special training in articulation and lip-reading. Some of 
the teachers also use articulation and speech-reading, in addition to the 
manual alphabet and writing, as a means of instruction with part of 
their pupils. A few of the pupils are taught wholly by the Oral Method, 
but are allovved to mingle freely with pupils from the sign classes at all 
times outside of the class-room. Attention is also given to auricular 
training. In short, our rule is- "■Any 'method for good results." 

ARTICULATION AND I.IP-READING. 

Articulation and lip-reading are taught to forty-seven pupils taken 
from the regular classes taught by the manual method. Their 
teacher shows untiring patience in the discharge of her duty (as 
must any one who teaches the deaf) but canuot show such results as 
she might, were her classes smaller and more time given her. Such pu- 
pils as cannot be taught by the oral method, but wlio, at the same time, 
show some capacity for articulation and lip-reading, should certainly be 
drilled therein by special teachers. I believe we have here at the 
present time seventy-five or more such pupils. To give them the proper 
instruction would require three teachers. We have now but the one, 
and I recommend that two additional should be employed. 

SPECIAL STUDIES. 

Under this head ai'c! grouped drawing, painting, wood-carving, clay- 
modeiing, designing and physical culture. For these studies we have 
two special teachers. Special work in penmanship has been discontinued, 
each teacher looking after his own class in this matter. 

Drawing is taught to the entire primary department and to one grade 
of the intermediate, and painting (under which is included charcoal 
sketching, pastel work, and the work in oil and water colors) to the girls 
of the academic department. Splendid progress has been made in both. 
Physical culture is taught to the same classes as drawing, and has 
proved quite a success. 

Thus, we have in the intellectual department seventeen regular class 
teachers, one teacher of articulation and lip-reading, one teacher for the 
oral-aural class, one teacher for drawing, painting, wood-carving, etc., 
and one teacher of physical culture, making twenty-one in all. 



20 



THE INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT. 

I am £flad to be able to state that this department is at last in most 
excellent condition. The improvement began in 1891, when the Legis- 
lature made it possible for ns to abandon that "foreign growth" for an 
industrial school — the "lease system" — by making a special appropria- 
tion of .f 8,000.00, with "which we were to fit up the shops and pay regu- 
larly employed instructors. The first payment from this fund was made 
in August, 1891. Since then, new machinery and other shop appliances 
have been added from time to time, in printing oflice, shoe-shop and 
cabinet-shop, until now they are in first-class condition. 

The matter of teaching trades to the deaf is one of very great import- 
ance, and takes rank, in my estimation, with intellectual training. A 
cultivated mind and hand can go further and do more than a cultivated 
mind alone. JManual training schools for hearing-speaking youth are 
now being demanded everywhere, but they are not of such vital import- 
ance to them as they are to the deaf. In such schools for the former, 
the sole aim is to teach anderli/iiig j^rincqiles of many trades, and not 
thoroughly any nidividual trade, while for the deaf at this Institution 
our aim is to not only teach the underlying principles, l)ut to go a step 
further, and teacli thoroughly indioidaal tnides. Instead of being called 
industrial schools, or schools for manual training, we should rather call 
ours "trade schools," which more nearly gives the correct idea. Most 
manual training school authorities hold that the more the shop becomes 
a factory, the less it is a school. With our object of individual trades in 
view, our shops must necessarily become, more or less, factories, and yet 
are, in the highest degree, schools. The factories, however, exist as an 
incident of the school, and not the cause of it. 

It is not hoped to make any of the shops self-sustaining. They are 
operated simply as a means of education. Instructions have been given 
to the foremen to teach the trade — to have a ten-cent article made properly 
if it takes a dollar's worth of material — to do otherwise will be to lose 
sight of the end for which the shop was established. 

The cabinet-shop as now arranged is in reality a "school of joinery," 
wherein the underlying principles of carpentry and cabinet-making are- 
taught together, to the end that a boy, on leaving, may have a fair knowl- 
edge of not only one trade, but of several, liegular lessons will be given 
on the characteristics of the various woods; methods of "laying out" 
work; the care and use of tools; methods of mortising, sawing, planing; 
the making of all kinds of joints, single and in combination ; fastening 
by glue, pins, nails, etc.; the cleaning and polishing of woods; painting, 
staining, varnishing, etc. This "school of joinery" has been strengthened 
by the establishment of a fully equipped "wood-turning shop." The 
lathe-room contains ten latest improved turning lathes of various sizes, 
one large scroll saw, one combination graduated steel top sawing table 
with rip and cut-off saws, one planer, one cross-cut saw and one wood 
moulding machine. 

In the printing oflice stands a Campbell printing press and a Nonpareil 
job press, both of which are operated by electricity, the power being 



21 



furnished by the electric lighting station belonging to the Institution. 
The Campbell press has a capacity of 1,800 impressions per hour. The- 
paraphernalia of the office is complete in every way. In this industry 
is given instruction in book and news composition, press-work and bind- 
ing. As a means toward the end a five-column folio weekly newspaper 
is published, and is called The Silent Hoosier. 

The shoe-shop is designed as a "school in leather work." At the 
present time instruction is given mostly in boot and shoe-making. The 
pupils are taught to measure, cut and fit, as well as the mere making. 
To this will be added some time in the future a series of lessons in leath- 
er work and other trades. 

Instruction is given to the girls in all kinds of house-work, in cooking, 
in plain and fancy needle-work, and in dress-making', cutting, fitting and 
draping. The girls in the academic departmeiit are also instructed in 
drawing, painting, modelling, designing and wood-carviug. Boys may 
also be admitted to these classes. 



riNAIN^CIAL. 

PER CAPITA EXPENSE— MAINTENANCE. 

The following statement will show the per capita expense classified as. 
paid from the maintenance fund, for the fiscal year ending October 31,. 
1892. The average number of pupils in attendance was 265. 



Aimisements 

Annals 

Annual reports . 

Artsnpplies 

Bediling 

Boiler exi)ense 

Bread.stntts 

Canned jiiiods 

Carpets, shades, ete. . . . 

Cement walks 

Cleansers 

Clothing 

Dininu'-roorn expense.. . 

Dried trnits 

Enfr ineer's supplies 

Farm and garden ex 

Fire protection 

Fisli and oysters 

Fuel 

Furniture 

Green fruits 

(ireenliouse expense . . . 
Groceries luiclassilied. . 

Heatini;- ajiparatus., 

Hospital sujiplies 

Toe 

Kitcliea expense 

Laundry (not cleansers) 

Library 

Light.'. 

Meat and lard 

Plumbing 

I'ostage 



Total. 



)Sii";2.72 
121.20 
3,30.30 
113.42 
317.08 
379.01 

1,806.95 
G20.35 
269.79 
149.80 

1,001.36 

1,0.54.57 
265.47 
288.92 
307.98 
195.33 
21.30 
85.20 

4,443.19 
151.78 
397.91 
134.49 
,599.85 
226..50 
249.59 
110.10 
1,58.51 
240.05 
,37.12 
529.54 

3,9.39.81 
7.5.01 
117.70 



Per 
Capita. 



•1(0.240 
.45X 
1.270 
.428 
1.19:! 

1.43! 
6.820 
2.350 
1.027 
..566 
3.780 
3.980 
1.04' 
1.091 
1.162 
.738 
.081 

I6!7r;7 

.573 
1..502 
.510 
2.2(14 
.,8.55 
.942 
.42(; 
.6(10 
.906 
.14(1 
2.000 
14.,S67 
.283 
.444 



eggs. 



Pa])ering 

Poidtry, butter, 

cheese 

Provender 

l'ii|iils' nns. CO. ex 

Kciiair-shopex 

Salaries and wages 

Trustees 

Officers 

Teachers 

Attendants 

Domestics 

lOngiiiecr's, etc 

Farm employes 

Watchman. .' 

School supplies 

Sew jng-r(iom supplies. 
Siieaking tube expense. 

shible expense 

Stiitionery 

Store-roohi 

Newspapers 

Sugar, coffee, tea 

Syrup and vinegar 

Telegraphage 

TelephdUe ' 

Toilet suiiplies 

\'cgetal)Ies 

Vehicles and harness. . 
Unclassified expense.. 
White-washing 

Total 



Total. 



.129.75 

3,495.45 
505.06 
145.34 
220.23 
(28„501..34) 
1,200.00 
3,637.84 
14,770.24 
1,473..58 
3,.535.81 
1,792.83 
1,731.04 
3(;o.O0 
467.00 
.58.74 
.32.78 
11G.31 
244.83 
6..50 
74.57 
1 197.50 
145.20 
16.33 
97.60 
136.1! 
515.91 
194.25 
675.46 
100.32 



.§55,784.49 



22 

PROPEKTY. 

The value of real and personal property belonging to the 
Institution October 31, 1892 S562,438 40 

FARM AND GARDEN. 

Value of products of fann and garden !B3,288 28 

EARNINGS. 

Amount of money received from sales and from 

shops $886 44 

Less shop receipts credited to maintenance fund. . .f 800 40 

Balance paid State Treasurer for General Fund.. $86 04 

MAINTENANCE. 

Received during the year from state iftoOjOOO 00 

Received during t'le year from siiops 800 40 

Total receipts $55,800 40 

Expended during the year 55,784 49 

Balance 15 91 

CURRENT EXPENSES AND REPAIRS. 

Received during year $3,000 00 

Expended during year 3,000 00 

CLOTHING. 

Value of clothing, etc., furnished pupils during the 
year the same being returned to State Treasurer 

for collection , 1,12144 

Total covered into General Fund $1,223 39 

SPECIAL FUNDS. 

For IinpmmnetiU — 

Received during year $3,894 83 

Expended during year 1,820 24 

Balance $2,074 59 

For Industrial Education — 

Received during year $7,218 92 

Expended during year 3,091 98 

Balance 4,126 94 

Total balance unexpended and carried forward to 
next fiscal year $6,20153 



23 



NET PER CAPITA EXPENSE. 

Ordinary current expense (maintenance) So5,784 49 

Less value of clothing furnished pupils, the 

same being returned to State by counties -I?!, 121 44 

And ordinary e;u"nings paid State Treasurer 86 04 

1,207 48 

Balance ^54,577 01 

Average daily number of pupils, 265. 

]Sret per capita expense 205 95 

Including repairs, the per capita will be 217 27 

Including industrial special fund, the per capita 
will be 228 94 

Including improvement special fund, the per cap- 
ita will be 235 77 



In making comparison with other similar schools, the first (.$205.95) 
should be taken, for it has been found that other schools do not include 
the second, third and fourth items in their showing of per capita expense 
— they confine themselves to ordinary current expense (maintenance.) 



AXXVAL ADMlSSIOl^r OF NEW PUPILS. 



Tear. ■ Male. Feiiuile. Tofl. 



1844 


13 


10 


23 


1845 


12 


4 


16 


1846 


19 


4 


23 


1847 


24 


9 


33 


1848 


13 


11 


24 


1849 


14 


10 


24 


1850 


18 


6 


24 


1851 


30 


19 


49 


1852 


20 


12 


32 


1853 


25 


12 


37 


1854 


18 


10 


28 


1855 


10 


12 


22 


1856 


12 


10 


22 


1857 


5 


5 


10 


1858 


16 


14 


30 


1859 


15 


8 


23 


1860 


27 


25 


52 


1861 


9 


7 


16 


1862 


9 


11 


20 


1863 


17 


15 


32 


1864 


15 


11 


26 


1865 


11 


18 


29 


1866 


16 


14 


30 


1867 


21 


11 


32 


1868 


26 


13 


39 


1869 


16 


23 


39 



Year. Male. Fern. Tofl. 

1870 27 26 53 

1871 34 15 49 

1872 31 18 49 

1873 35 25 60 

1874 35 21 56 

1875 34 18 52 

1876 35 19 54 

1877 28 21 49 

1878 21 31 52 

1879 37 24 61 

1880 29 22 51 

1881 40 34 74 

1882 32 25 57 

1883 25 19 44 

1884 36 21 57 

1885 30 15 45 

1886 33 30 63 

1887 11 14 25 

1888 24 13 37 

1889 15 16 31 

1890 28 21 49 

1891 14 21 35 

1892 22 15 37 

Total 1,087 788 1,875 



24 



YEARLY EXPENDITURES— 1844 TO 1892. 

Buildings and 

Improvements. Maintenance. 

1844 to 1852 .$120,450 63 !$67,133 97 

1853 20,550 99 21,365 60 

1854 10,533 14 21,424 33 

1855 23,663 72 

1856 5,755 45 27,433 64 

1857 19,941 74 

1858 9,571 27 23,890 42 

1859 1,700 00 27,037 14 

1860 28,560 38 

1861 10,396 10 29,001 82 

1862 6,497 01 25,512 35 

1863 25,149 59 

1864 30,299 08 

1865 .' 3,283 44 35,994 41 

1866 41.808 67 

1867 2,803 23 36,098 67 

1868 1,496 77 41,158 93 

1869 28,919 95 42,481 32 

1870 28,657 17 49,861 49 

1871 6,806 38 52,890 63 

1872 11.664 79 56,532 33 

1873 12.275 29 58,752 99 

1874 2,939 09 66.291 89 

1875 60.233 26 

1876 2,993 10 63,553 77 

1877 1 ,000 00 ()4.884 62 

1878 62,997 99 

1879 5,420 66 55,855 36 

1880 6,523 53 50,005 88 

1881 59.522 30 

1882 2,982 37 52.818 (57 

1883 2,895 07 56,871 93 

1884 2,184 87 53,320 60 

1885 10,140 21 54.036 80 

1886 80 52,069 98 

1887 2,173 05 54,828 65 

1888 -^."OO 00 53,680 97 

1889 . ! ^ ! ^','•"'4 45 54.999 39 

1890 46,034 43 54,998 ()(> 

mn.............. 19,385 90 54,998 86 

1^92 " /-'l^ 22 55,784 49 



Total 

(iraiul total 



.i?406,494 31) $1,867,747 29 
.'?2,274,241 65 



25 



RULES AND RECrULATIONS FOR THE ADAHSSION OF 

NEW PUPILS. 
1893. 

I. This Institution is open to all the deaf of the State, free of charge, 
provided they are of suitable age and capacity for receiving instruction, 
and are too deaf to be educated in the common schools. 

II. Pupils will be considered! of proper age between the years of 8 and 
21. No applicant wlio is idiotic, feeble-minded, afflicted with a conta- 
gious or offensive disease, or who is an invalid so confirmed as to prevent 
study, will be received. No case of sore eyes will be received. 

III. This Institution is in no sense an asylum, neither is it a hospital. 
It is strictly an educational institution. 

lY. Applications for the admission of pupils must be made on regular 
blanks of the Institution, which will be furnished the applicant by the 
Superintendent thereof. All questions on the these blanks must be fully an- 
swered, and the requirement of the certificate of a Justice of the Peace on 
the back thereof (that the person seeking admission as a pupil is a legal 
resident of the State and county named), must be complied with. [See 
Sec. 2762, R. S. 1881.] 

Y. Pupils will be admitted on the following conditions: (1) The pu- 
pil, provided with clothes, must be brought to the Institution punctually 
at the commencement of each session, unless detained at home by sick- 
ness. (2) The pupil is to remain in sciiool until the second Wednesday 
in June in each year. (3) No parent or guardian will be allowed to take 
a pupil out of the school during the session without some urgent reason. 
Pupils will not be allowed to go home during the holidays. 

YI. The annual sessions of the school commence on Wednesday of 
the week during which the State Fair is held {usually September 20 to 24), 
and close on the second Wednesday in June. Pupils must come prompt- 
ly on or before the first day of the session, and remain until the last day 
of same. The only exceptions allowed are in cases of sickness. 

YII. No pupil, unless under extraordinary circumstances, can be re- 
ceived at any time other than at the commencement of the session. 

YIII. This Institution will provide for each pupil, regularly admitted, 
boarding, lodging, washing, superintendence of conduct, manners and 
physical needs, instruction, school-books, slates, and all incidental ex- 
penses of the school-room, without charge, but will not pay the traveling 
expenses of pupils in coming to or going from the Institution, nor sup- 
ply them with clothing. 

IX. All traveling expenses of pupils to and from the Institution must 
be defrayed by their parents or guardians. They are also required to 
furnish annually to each pupil sent by them, a sufficient quantity of 
suitable clothing to last until the close of the term. [See Sec. 2763, B. S 
1881.] A good stout trunk must also be supplied. The name of the pu- 



36 



pil should be written with indelible ink upon all articles of clothing, as 
they are liable to be lost when not marked. 

X. The applicant must deposit with the Superintendent, when ad- 
mitted, a sum not less than five dollars to defray incidental expenses, 
repairs of shoes, etc., any part of wliich remaining unexpended at the 
close of the session will be returned if desired. 

XL When it is established that a pupil is in indigent circumstances 
and the parents or guardians are either unable or neglect to furnish tlie 
necessary clothing, it will be supplied by the superintendent in pursu- 
ance of the following legislative enactment: 

"Sec. 2764, R. S. 1881. In all cases where suitable clothing and means 
for defraying traveling expenses are not otherwise supplied to the pu- 
pils, the same shall be provided by the superintendent, who shall make 
out and file with the Treasurer of State accounts therefor, separate in 
each case, against the respective counties from whicli such pupils are 
sent, in an amount not exceeding forty dollars per annum for every 
such pupil, which accounts shall be severally signed by the superintend- 
ent and attested by the seal of the Institution under his charge; and the 
Treasurer of State shall charge each account thus certified to the county 
from which the pupil named therein was sent. 

"See. 2765, li. S. The Treasurer of State shall forward each account so 
filed with him to tlie treasurer of the proper county, who shall cause it 
to be paid out of the county treasury to the Treasurer of State; and such 
county treasurer shall, in the name of the county, and by suit, if necessa- 
ry, collect the amount of such account from the parents or estate of such 
pupil, as the case may be, where there is ability to pay." 

XII. The course of study in the Institution is so arranged as to cover 
ten years and is divided into primary, intermediate and academic courses. 
The primary and intermediate courses embrace spelling, reading, writing, 
arithmetic, geography, history and grammar. The two courses are divid- 
ed into seven grades, five primary and two niterraediate, and the time re- 
quired to complete them is seven years. All pupils who wish it, and who 
will avail themselves of it, are allowed the benefit of these courses of 
study. The academic course comprises a three years' course of advanced 
primary and intermediate work, and a study of the sciences. Only pupils 
who complete the primary and intermediate courses ui the time allotted, 
and with honor to themselves, will be allowed to pass into the academic 
course with the privilege of three years' longer connection with the Insti- 
tution. 

XIII. The superintendent shall have the power to at any time dis- 
charge a pupil from the Institution for inability to receive an education^ 
for failure to make the necessary progress, and for violation of the rules 
of the Institution. He may also, when he thinks the facts warrant it, 
extend the period for instruction in individual cases. 

XIV. It is the intention of the Trustees to render the pupils self-sup- 
porting, so far as practicable, so that every pupil, on leaving the Institu- 
tion, shall be proficient in some useful occupation or trade, so as to be 



27 



able to maintain himself witliout reliance on the charity of others. In 
accordance with this design, all the scholars will be required to labor a 
portion of each day, the girls performing the lighter Icinds of house-work 
and various kinds of needle-work, as plain sewing or ornamental work 
and dress-making; and the boys at various trades, printing, cabinet-mak- 
ing, tailoring, carpentry, shoe-making, chair-caning, farming, floriculture 
and baking. 

XV. Those persons bringing pupils to or taking them away from the 
Institution cannot be furnished with board or lodging. 

XVI. The pupils will be sent home to spend the vacation, which be- 
gins the second "Wednesday in June. 

XVil. All business letters or letters of inquiry in regard to pupils in 
the Institution, or those whom it may be designed to place there, must 
he addressed to the Superintendent. 



COURSE OF STUDY IN DETxVIL. 
1893. 

PRIMARY DEPARTMENT. 

Grade 1 — Lumjawje — Past, present, future and past progressive 
tenses, past, present and future of "to be"; these to be taught in the 
three sentence forms positive, negative and interrogative. Arithmetic — 
Notation 1 to 10; mental addition. Penmanship — Instruction Avith pen- 
cil and crayon, followed by pen and ink exercises in books. Dnming — 
First principles, using blackboard and slate. 

Grade 2 — Language — Sentences involving all tenses of the active voice 
and the verb "to be." ^4?7Y7imef«c— Notation 1 to 20, addition and sub- 
traction; mental and blackboard. Penmanship — Copy-book work. Draw- 
ing— Pvajig's Drawing Book No. 1. 

Grade 3 — Language — All tenses, active, passive and progressive. 
Arithmetic — Writing 1 to 50; addition, subtraction, multiplication, dol- 
lars and cents; mental and blackboard. Penvtanship — Copy-book work. 
Drawing — Prang's Drawing Book No. 2. 

Grade 4 — Language — Verb forms continued, and systematic instruc- 
tion in idioms. Arithmetic — Writing 1 to 100; addition, subtraction, mul- 
tiplication, division; dollars and cents. Geography — Written by teacher, 
■with Institution as center, from which extend outward, taking in city, 
■county and State; show principal towns, rivers and lines of railway; 
show also highlands, lowlands and marshes of State; draw maps of Insti- 
tution grounds, county and State. Penmanship — Copy-book work. 
Draioing — Prang's Drawing Book No. 3. 

Grade 5 — Language — General reading and idioms. Arithmetic — 
Properties of numbers; cancellation; fractions, addition and subtraction. 
Geography — Written by teacher; general division of land and water and 
form of earth; North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, 
Oceanica. Penmanship — Copy-book work. Drawing — Prang's Drawing 
Book No. 4. 



28 



INTERMEDIATE DEPARTMENT. 

B (iRADK—L'iiiguage — General reading aid idioms continued. Arith- 
metic — Fractions, multiplication and division; decimals; United States 
inoney; practical problems. Gco(/)-(iphi/—Tirst two months review Fifth 
grade; elementary United Stated political and physical; draw maps of 
States, showing principal towns, rivers and mountains. //<stor;/— Sep- 
tember to January, written by teachers concerning Institution, city, 
county, and State; January to June, Primary United States, to begin- 
ning of Revolution, and stories of. Drawing — Prang's Drawing Book 
No. 5. 

A Grade — Language — General reading and idioms continued. Arith- 
metic — Denominate numbers; latitude and longitude; standard time; 
percentage and application of (profit and loss, commission and broker- 
age, insurance, taxes, duties and customs, stocks and investments); prac- 
tical problems and exercises in making out accounts, drawing notes, 
checks, drafts, receipts, etc. Geography — World's jjolitical. lli^tarn— 
Primary United States, beginning of Pievolution to present time, and 
stories of. 

ACADEMIC DEPARTMENT. 

Junior Grade — Language — General reading and idioms continued. 
Arithmetic — Interest, simple and compound, and applications of (partial 
payments, discount and present worth, bank discount); exchange; equa- 
tion of payments; averaging accounts; aliquot parts; practical prob- 
lems and exercises in commercial forms continued. Geography — World's 
mathematical and physical. History — September to January, Complete 
United States, beginning of Eevolution to present; January to June, 
General: stories of both. 

Middle Grade — LMnguage — Grammar and general reading. Arith- 
metic — Ratio and proportion; partnership; arithmetical analysis; square 
and cube root and application of; arithmetical and geometrical progres- 
sion; practical problems and exercises in commercial forms continued. 
History — English. Physiology — Elements of and lectures, making use of 
anatomical models, skeleton, etc. 

Senior Grade — Language — Grammar and general reading. Arithme- 
tic— MeusiwRtion, gauging, metric system, general review. Natural Phi- 
losophy — Hydrostatics, pneumatics, magnetism, electricity, heat, light. 
Moral Philosophy — Lectures on. Natural History — Elements of and lect- 
ures on. Civics — Outline in general, United States in particular. 

Note— rTlie vocabulary of a class will be governed by the verb forms 
•taught, the daily incidents of each particular class room, and the limit- 
ations agreed upon from time to time at teachers' meetings. 

TEXT BOOKS USED. 

Grade 1— No books. 
Grade 2— No books. 
Grade 3— Selected Primary Reader. 

Grade 4— Elementary Arithmetic and Third Reader, Indiana series. 
Grade 5— Elementary Arithmetic and Fourth Reader, Indiana series; 
maps, globes, etc. 



29 



B Grade— Elementary Arithmetic, Elementary Geography and Fifth 
Reader, all of Indiana series; (iuackenbos' Primary History of the 
United States. 

A Grade — Complete Arithmetic ai)d Complete Geography, Indiana 
■series; Quackenbos' Primary History of the United States. 

Junior Grade— Complete Arithmetic and Complete Geography, In- 
•diana series; Higginfon's United States History, Anderson's General 
History. 

jMiddle Grade— Complete Arithmetic, Indiana series; Eerard's En- 
glish History, Brown's Elements of Physiology, Eeed and Kellogg's 
Grammar. 

Senior Grade — Complete Arithmetic, Indiana series; Cooley's Pop- 
ular Philosophy, Tenny'e Natural History, Reed and Kellogg's Grammar, 
Townshend's Civil Government. 

special instruction. 

Specuil instruction is to be given pupils by special teachers as follows: 

Hkawing— Grades 2a, 2b, 3a, 3b, 3c, Monday and A\'ednesday morn- 
ings; grades 4, 5a, ob, 5c, B, Tuesday and Thursday mornings. 

Painting — Girls of Academic Department, afternoons. 

Physical Exercise — Same grades as drawing, with which alternate, 
each morning. 

Articulation and Lip-Eeading— Selected pupils, mornings. 

INDUSTRIAL DEPARTMENT. 

Instruction will be given in this department to assigned pupils as 



follows: 

Carpentry and cabinet-making 6 years course 

Shoe and leather work 6 " 

Printing — Composition, press-work, binding 4 " 

Chair-caning 1 " 

Cooking 1 " 

Sewing, plain 2 " 

Dressmaking — Cutting, fitting, draping 2 " 

Tailoring 2 " 

Sewing — Fancy needle-work 1 '• 



Instruction will also be given to the girls in all kinds of house-work as 
may be arranged for by the superintendent. Certain boys will also be 
■assigned to the bake-shop, kitchen, carpenter-shop, green-house and farm. 
Boys not assigned to regular trade courses and other places mentioned 
shall be required to do police duty around buildings and grounds. 

Admission to the regular trade courses for boys, except printing, will 
be from Grade 5. In printing, admission will be from the A Grade. 

Admission for the girls will be from Grade 3. 

In addition to the above, the girls in the Academic Department will 
be taught drawing, painting, modelling, designing, and wood-carving. 
Boys may be admitted to these classes. 



30 



KEGULAR ORDER OF THE DAY. 



Rise 6:00 a. m. 

Breakfast^J-'upils and employes 6:40 '• 

" Oflicers and teachers 7:00 " 

Bible Lecture 8:00 " 

School 8:20 to 1:00 p. m. 

Industries 8:20 to 10:20 a.m. 

Recess 10:45 to 11:00 " 

Dinner — Employes 12:30 p. m. 

Officers 12:50 " 

" Teachers and pupils 1:10 " 

School 2:00 to 4:30 " 

Industries 2:00 to 5:00 " 

Supper — Employes and pupils 6:00 " 

" Oflicers and teachers 6:20 " 

Study hour 7:00 to 8:30 " 

Pupils retire 8:00,8:30, 9:00 " 

All others retire 10:00 " 

Lights out 10:15 " 

CHANGES ON SATURDAY. 

Bathing 8:20 to 12:00 m. 

Industries 8:20 to 10:00 a. Ji. 

Dinner — Employes and pupils 12:30 p. m. 

" Oflicers and teachers 12:50 " 

Pupils retire 7:00, 8:00, 9:00, 9:30 " 

CHANGES ON SUNDAY. 

Bible Lecture 9:00 a.m. 

Study hour 10:30 to 11 :30 " 

Dinner — Employes and pupils 12:30 p. Ji 

" Officers and teachers 12:50 " 

Sabbath School 2:15 to 3:30 " 

Supper for all 5:30 '' 

Study hour 7:00 to 8:00 " 

Pupils retire 7 :00, 8 :00, 9 :00 " 



OUTLINES FOR 1892-1893. 

HOLIDAY'S. 

October 21 — Columbian Day (half-day, morning). 
November 24 — Thanksgiving Day. 

December 12 (for December 11)— Anniversary of Indiana's admission 
into the Union (half-day, morning). 
December 23, 24 and 26— Christmas. 
December 30 and 31, January 2— Xew Year. 
February 22— Washington's ]3irthday. 
March 4— United States Day (half-day, morning). 
May 30— Decoration Day. 
June 9— Field Day. 
June 12 and 13. 



31 



On Columbian, United States and Indiana days tliere will be a cessa- 
tion of scliool dnties in the morning. 

On Colnmbian Day the exercises will be commemorative of the discov- 
ery of America by Columbus; on United States Day explanatory of the 
stirring events surrounding- the birth of our nation; on Indiana Day 
explanatory of statehood and Indiana's admission into the Union. 

On Thanksgiving, Christmas, New Year, Washington's birthday and 
Decoration Day, school and work will be suspended the entire day, and 
the usual exercises incident to the times will be observed. 

On Field Day all scliool and work will be suspended and the day given 
over to competitive athletic sports for certain prizes. The outline of the 
contests, rules governing them, and a list of the prizes, will be published 
later. 

LECTURE COTIKSE. 

October 15— AVm. 11. Latham. 
November 12 — N. B. McKee. 

December 10 — ilagic Lantern and Theatricals, Albert Berg. 
January 14 — Sidney J. Yail. 
February 4 — Henry J5ierliaus. 
March 11 — August Jutt. 

April 1 — Magic Lantern and Theatricals, N. F. Morrow. 
April 22 — Orson Archibald. 
May (5^Wm. II. DeMotte. 
May 20— S. W. Gilbert. 
June 10 — Charles Kerney. 

LITERAIIY SOCIETIES. 

The literary societies will meet during the year as follows: 
Girls' Literary Society — October 29, December 17, March 18. 
Gillett Literary Society (Boys)— November 26, January 21, April 15. 
Joint Celebrations — February 25, May 27. 
Fractice Nights— xV It ern^ite Friday nights. 

pupils' PARTIES, ETC. 

November 24— Social. 

December 24— Christmas Eve celebration and party. 
December 31 — New Year's party. 
February 14 — Yalentine masquerade party. 
May 13 — Final social. 

TIMES FOR MONITORIAL DUTY BY TEACHERS. 

Gentlemen. 

Week Bays, except S(durday — Morning lecture; recess; 7:00 to 8:30 p. M. 

Saturday — Morning lecture; 1:30 to 6:00 P. M. 

Sunday- -lOm to 11:30 A. M.; 7:00 to 8:00 p. M. 

On Full 7Jo^«VZay.s— Excused from duty after Bible lecture. 

Ladies. 

Week days, except Saturday — Recess; 7:00 to 8:30 p. M. 

Sunday — 10:30 A. M. to 8:00 p. M.; dining-room at dinner and supper. 

On Fall Holidays — Excused from duty. 



1 

i 



32 



■4 
III 


History. 
12:00 to 1 :00. 
Daily recitation. 


1 


"1 




Study. 
12 :00 to 1 :00. 
Arithmetic. , 

i 


History. 
n :00 to ri:00. 
Daily recitation. 
Study at night study 
lioiir. 


Geography. 

11 :00 to 12:00. 
Eecit:itic)ns Tuesday, 

Tluirs(hi\', Friday. 
Monday I'lrepare "for 

Tuesday. 
Wednesday prepare 

for Thursday. 
Friday review both. 


Arithmetic. 
11:00 to 12: JO. 
Daily recitation. 
Study 12:00 to 1:00. 


>> 


(Jeography. I 
10:00 to 10:45. 
Recitations Tuesday, 

Thursday, Friday.' 
Monday prepare for 

Tuesday. 
AVedncschiy prepare 

for Thursday. 
Friday reyiew both. 


■=' 

mi 


Language. 

10 :00 to 10 :45. 
Dailv recitation. 
Study at night study 
hour. 


s m Si 

^5 Iris's 


Arithmetic. 
9:10 to 10:00. 
Daily recitation. 
Study 12 :00 to 1 :00. 


mi 


History. 
9:10 to 10:00. 
Daily recitation. 
Study at night study 
hour. 


i 1 1 

<^ P4 a- 


Language. 

8:20 to 9:10. 
Daily recitation. 
Study at night study 
hour. 


Study. 

8:20 to 9:10. 
Arithmetic. 




Physiology. 

8:20 to 9:10. 
Recitations Slonday, 

Wednesday, Friday. 
Tuesday prepare for 

Wedn"esday. 
Thursday prepare for 

Friday. 
Monday review both. 


Arithmetic. 

8:20 to 9:10. 
Daily recitation. 
Study 12 :00 to 1 :00. 




Junior 


Middle 


Senior 



V 



I 

I 

[ 



I 



33 



INSTKl'CTOKS' GUIDH:. 



A Intermediate and Academic Grades. 



Dr. Latham. 


Du. DeMotte. 


Mr. Bierhaus. 


Miss Hendricks. 


Junior— Study. 
8:20 to 9:10. 

MkUl — Histoiv. 
9: 10 to 10:00. 

Senior— Philosopliy 
or Civics. 

10:00 to 10:4.5. 

A— History, 
11:00 to 12:00. 

Junior— History. 
12:00 to 1 :00. 


Senior— Aritlimetic. 
8:20 to 9:10. 

A— Arithmetic. 
9:10 to 10:00. 

Junior— Arithmetic. 
30:00 to 10:45. 

Middle— Aritlimetic. 
11:00 to 12:00. 

Senior— Study. 
12:00 to 1 :00. 


Middle — Ph'siology. 
8:20 to 9:10. 

Senior— jSTat. History. 
9:10 to 10:00. 

A — (ieograpliy. 
10:00 to 10:15. 

Junior— Geography. 
11:00 to 12:00. 

Middle— Study. 
12:00 to 1:00. 


A— Language. 
8 :20 to 9 :10. 

Junior— Language. 
9:10 to 10:00. 

Middle— Language. 
10:00 to 10:45. 

Senior— Language. 
11 :00to 12:00. 

A— Studv. 
12 :00 to l':00. 



MARKING. 

It shall be the duty of teachers to make and record, monthly, a careful 
estimate of the work of each of their pupils in all branches of study. 
This estimate shall be based upon the fidelity and success with which 
the pupils have done assigned work, and also upon their success in oral 
and written tests which have been employed as an element of teaching- 
and the answers to which have not been valued numerically. It shall 
not be based upon daily marking of recitations, nor upon deportment, 
nor upon stated examinations. But the teacher may keep such mem- 
oranda of pupils' work as are deemed necessary. 

These recorded monthly estimates, teachers must average twice a year 
— February 1 and .Tune 1. The monthly estimates and the two averages 
must be certified to the superintendent. 

These estimates of the monthly success and progress of pupils are to 
be made on a scale of 30 to 100, as follows: 100, perfect; 90, excellent; 
80, very good; 70, good; 60, tolerable; 50, poor; 40, very poor; 30 and below, 
failure. 

The '-5 mark ' may be used to indicate in some degree t[;e relative 
standing of pupils in their class, but under no circumstances .nust any 
estimate be given whicli is not recorded in figures a multiple of 5. It is 
suggested that the standard of pupils be primarily estimated as excellent, 
good or poor, and then modified, provided the higher and lower estimates 
can be readily made. 

It shall also be the duty of the principal to examine, and when neces- 
sary, revise the teachers' monthly estimates of their pupils' proficiency, 
and to approve the same when averaged in February and June. He 
shall give teachers such instruction and other assistance in estimating 
the proficiency and progress of their pupils as will secure requiiite 
uniformity. 

TERMS AND GRADE DAYS. 

A graded system, to be what it should be, must possess flexibility, in 
order to secure needed uniformity of attainment in the several classes, 
Indiana— 2 



34 



without unduly holding back the more capable pupils, or unduly urging 
forward the less capable. In order to increase this flexibility, the regular 
annual session of tliis school is diVided into three terms, to-wit: 

First Term — Opening of school to January 1. 

Second Term — January 1 to March 15. 

Third Tirm — March 15 to close of school. 

GRADE DAYS. 

January 1 and March 15 shall be known as (irade Days. At these 
times such pupils as it would beneiit maybe transferred to the next 
lower or to the next higher grade, as the case may be, to remain therein 
for one term or longer, as the exigencies of the case require. 

To illustrate: A pupil may fail to pass his grade in June, and yet be so 
proficient as to make it a hardship to compel him to spend another entire 
year in the same grade, when one term may remedy the deficiency. 
Again, it frequently happens that a pupil may be very proficient in one 
or more studies, and very deficient in another; by transferring him to 
the next lower grade he has the opportunity of overcoming the deficiency 
and does not lose much in missing the regular instruction in the studies 
in which he is proficient, the length of the term being short. 

It is believed that short terms and grade days will excite pupils to 
greater effort. They will know that on January 1 and March 15 they 
will be "weighed" and will not wish to be "found wanting." 

Nothing herein contained shall curtail the power granted the principal 
by the superintendent to make changes in extraordinary cases at any 
time. 

PROMOTION. 

At the close of the annual session there shall be held a written exam- 
ination for all grades excepting Primary Grades 1 and 2, and the Aca- 
demic Grades, to be conducted by special examiners as may be arranged 
for by the superintendent. Pupils' examination papers shall be marked 
by the examiner in figures the multiple of five, and certified to the prin- 
cipal. 

Promotion from Primary (irades 1 and 2 shall be upon the average of 
the two required averages of monthly estimates when approved by the 
superintendent. 

Promotions and graduations from the Academic Grades shall be upon 
the judgment of the teachers of those grades when .approved by the 
superintendent. The teachers of said grades shall sit as a Board of 
Promotion for the purpose named. 

Promotions from all other grades shall be upon the average of the 
two required averages of monthly estimates combined with the esti- 
mates of the written examinations in such proportion as the superinten- 
dent may direct. 

No pupil in Primary Grades 1, 2, 3, 4, whose average in language is be- 
low 65 shall be promoted. No pupil in Primary Grades 5, or in Inter- 
mediate Grades B and A whose average is below 70 in language, or be- 
low fi5 in arithmetic, geography or history, shall be promoted. 



35 



SATURDAY. 


Cracked Wheat, 

Hash, 
Bread, 

Butter, 
Coffee. 


I'.oiled Beef, 

Potatoes, 
Corn Bread, 
Kraut, 
Bread, butter. 


O <v 

III «N 

^ -r; CD 

m " ^ 


FRIDAY. 


Beefsteak, 
Gravy, 
Fried Potatoes, 
Bread, Butter, 
Colfee, 


Oyster Soup, 
(1st and 3d 

Fridays), 
Spare Pibs 
(2d and 4th 

Fridays), 
Maslied Potatoes 

Pickles, 
Bread, Butter, 


Cold Meat, 
Raw Onions, 
Bread, 
Butter, 
Tea. 


THURSDAY. 


Sausage, 
Hominy, 
Bread, 

Butter, 
Coffee. 


Roast Beef, 
Bilked Potatoes, 
Stewed Corn, 

Pickles, 
Bread, 

Butter, 
Mince Pie. 


cfi — 

CD 

^ ^ Ph ^ <C 
— X 


WEDNESDAY 


Beefsteak, 
Gravy, 
Fried Potatoes, 
Bread, Butter, 
Coffee. 


Vegetable Soup, 

Boiled Beef, 
Mashed Potatoes 

Beans, 
Bread Pudding, 
Bread, 
Butter. 


Apple Sauce, 
Cold Meats, 
Bread, 

Butter, 
Tea. 


TUESDAY. 


Fried Musli, 
Hash, 
Bread, 
Butter, 
Coffee. 


Roast Beef, 
Gravy, 
Boiled Potatoes, 
Stew'd Tomatoes, 
Bread, 
Butter, 
Pumpkin Pie. 


Cracked Wheat, 
Fried Potatoes, 

Stewed Prunes, 
Bread, Butter, 
Tea. 


MONDAY. 


Bacon, 

Hominy, 

Bread, 

Butter, 
("offee. 


Boile.l Beef, 
Stewed Potatoes, 
Kraut, 

Corn Bread, 
Bread, Butter. 


Cold Meats, 
Stewed 
Dried Peaches, 
Bread, Butter, 
Tea. 


SUNDAY. 


Beefsteak and 

Gravy, 
Fried Potatoes, 

Bread, 
Butter, Coffee. 


Stewed Chicken 
with Dumplings, 
Mashed Potatoes, 
Boiled Beans 
with Bacon, 
Bread, Butter, 
Gingerbread. 


Preserved 

Peaches, or 
Stewed 

Pitted Plums, 
Cookies, Cheese, 

Bread, 
Butter, Tea. 




•±svj>iv3aa 


•aaNNia 


•a3ddns 



36 



RULES GOVERNIiSTG PUPILS. 

I. The pupils must be respectful and obedient at all times. 

ir. They must be cleanly in their persons and neat in their dress. 

III. They must behave in an orderly manner at all times and in all 
places. 

lY. They must not indulge in. rough playing, scuffling, or running in 
the halls and rooms of the buildings. 

Y. They must not deface the buildings, damage the furniture, books, 
or other property of the Institution, nor make unnecessary work by 
throwing articles of any kind about the buildings or grounds. 

Yl. They must punctually observe the order of the day. 

YII. They must not absent themselves from the classes nor from the 
Institution without permission of the Superintendent. 

YIII. Boys must not leave the grounds e.Kcept on Saturday after- 
noons, and girls at no time without permission of the Superintendent. 

IX. Pupils living in the city are permitted to go home on alternate 
Saturdays, after bathing hour, and must return on Sunday, before 2 
o'clock p. M. 

X. They must not use tobacco nor spirits of any kind. 

XI. They must be diligent in their studies, neither wasteful of their 
time nor careless of their opportunities. 

XII. They must give notice and strict obedience to all rules and 
regulations that may from time to time be posted by the Superintendent. 



37 



CAUSES OF DEAFNESS 



III 1,800 c.u.ses, compiled from the record of this Imlitw'ion^ iirr<(ng-d in 
(/roups of 300, to show more clearly growth and diminution. 





CO 


CO 
T. — . 

^ o 

— -H 

o 


X 

:^ --o 
o ^ 

CO 


M \) pupils from 
1S73 to 1878. 


y CO 

— VD 
X 

= 00 
O —1 

c 

CO 


t, ^ 

X -H 

^ CO 

oS 


Tot;il. 


Sell I'U't 1 Vi'T 

iiiii'ioiiii'iliitii M)w1 (';ir 

1 lllliinillliiinii 1.1 it till (iiii-i v (M • - ■ ■ 

li'tli 11. nil t VI. . ■ . - •• 

'I'l'iiliiiiil fii\'i»r 
W'ltiiitiiiii'r <><^iHrli 
T-l \'i 1 1'l »< *! > t »1 1 ■ 1 1 1 1 >•; 


147 

33 

*) [ 
4 
19 
1 4 
() 

4 

] 

\ 

j[ 
\ 


I3r, 

40 

1 

4 

4 
4 


101 

13 
12 

1 2 

ID 
] 

\ 

5 


74 
1 17 
13 

2i! 
8 
7 
2 
() 

4 
•* 
- 

1 

3 


50 
107 
I '* 
48 
] 

0 
(J 

5 


(>4 
15 

"7 
13 

8 

4 

fj 

8 

1 
4 


503 
348 
148 
110 
75 
45 
40 
40 
40 

27 
20 
19 
12 
14 
Kt 
10 
0 

0 
8 
6 
5 

3 
3 

0 
I 

1 

1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 

122 

1,800 


i 'i 1 1 1 1 ri t i \' 1 ' 1 1 > V'( '1' 

I^IMIJ,' >MVi H ^^ 1 . 


4 


5 


1 III um )iua 






"**.'>' 
4 


3 
2 




\y 
~' 






I\iii1tl liiii'i'i 






4 
1 

1 




\ 

3 








i-iti)'ri>>.:tiiiii 




/ ' 1 1 1 1 1 r 1 n..' ( i \ * 1 1 ( ■ 1 1 i 1 1 






2 
\ 








■J 








1 






1 


1 
1 
1 
1 










1 










1 












1 












1 

2 
1 
1 




















































1 
















1 














1 
1 


























1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 
I 
4 

15 




































































































































1 
IG 




29 


37 


19 


G 



38 

AGES AT WHICH DEAFNESS OCCURRED. 



Tlie (tges at which deafness occurred among thene pupils will be seen from the 

following table: 





3844 


1854 


1866 


1873 


1878 


1883 




AGES. 


to 


to 


to 


to 


to 


to 


Total. 




1854. 


1866. 


1873. 


!878. 


1883. 


1890. 







147 


136 


101 


74 


56 


79 


593 




G 


•21 


15 


36 


32 


45 


155 




24 


15 


29 


38 


56 


57 


219 




lil 


20 


24 


29 


37 


'27 


1 58 




10 


12 


20 


20 


23 


10 


101 


Between four and five 


10 


8 


23 


16 


17 


11 


85 


Between five and six 


8 


8 


14 


13 


16 


11 


70 




10 




14 


10 


4 


6 


49 


Between seven and eisUt 


:i 


4 


10 


!1 


0 


4 


;8 


Between eight and nine 




7 


5 




3 


U 


25 




3 


3 


4 


0 






21 


I5etween ten and eleven ...... 


1 




4 


3 


1 


i 


10 


Between eleven and twelve .... 


1 




5 




10 


Between twelve and thirteen . . . 


1 


1 


2 


3 


1 


3 


11 


Between tliii tecn and r<nii teen. 










1 


4 




Between foiirti-en ami lilteen.. . 


















2 


1 


1 

1 






6 

3 


.Between sixteen and .seventeen 






1 




1 


Between sevent'n and eigliteen 






1 




1 


Between eiK'hti'cn and nineteen 








1 






1 


Between nineteen and twenty.. 














.Between tweidyand twenty-o'ne 


















53 


58 


20 


33 


42 


26 


232 












1 


4 


















Total 


300 


300 


300 


300 


300 


300 


1,800 



DEAF RELATIONSHIP. 



Admissions, Nor,ember, 1889, to November, 1892. 

Boys 60 

Girls 63 

Total 123 

Of these cases 

42, or about 34 per cent, were congeiiitally deaf. 
81, or about 66 per cent, were adventitiously deal 

Of the congenital cases 

25, or about 60 per cent, have 67 deaf relatives (congenital, 43; ad- 
ventitious, 24), and 66 hearing-speaking brothers and sisters. 

17 or about 40 per cent, have no deaf relatives, and 80 hearing- 
speaking brotliers and sisters. 

Of the adventitious cases 

20, or about 25 per cent, have 37 deaf relatives (congenital, 2; ad- 
ventitious, 35), and 72 hearing-speaking brothers and sisters. 

61, or about 75 per cent, have no deaf relatives and 226 hearing- 
speaking brothers and sisters. 



39 



Of the whole nuiiihev 

45 have 104 deaf relatives (congenital, 45; adventitious, 59), and 
138 hearing-speaking brothers and sisters. 

78 have no deaf relatives, and 306 hearing-speaking brothers and 
sisters. 

THE FORTY-TWO CONGENITAL CASES. 

Hearing- 
Deaf Sp'kiiig 

Bro. & Bio. & Remakks. 
No. Sisters. Sisters. 



1 1 (half)^rather, mother and paternal uncle deaf (father 

adventitiously.) 

2 3 — Father, mother and three maternal second cousins 

deaf (mother congenitally.) 

3 12 —Sister congenitally deaf. 

4 4 4 — The four congenitally deaf. 

5 13 — Parents cousins. 

^) 

7 ^ 2 3 — The two congenitally deaf; 6, 7 and 8 are brothers and 
8 ) sisters. 

9 —Mother deaf. 

10^ 

I2 ^ 2" — Xo deaf relatives. 

13J 

14 1 3 — l?rother congenitally deaf; has also two cousins, one 

maternal uncle, one maternal aunt, and one paternal 
uncle al! congenitally deaf, 

15 4 — Congenitally deaf ; parents first cousins. 

16 1 4 

17 6 — Has maternal deaf relative; one child died at birth. 

18 2 1 — The two congenitally deaf; has also three cousins, 

father, mother, five paternal uncles and aunts, all con- 
genitally deaf except mother, (18 months.) 

19 3 — Paternal grandmother deaf. 

20 1 3 — The one congenitally deaf. 

21 1 3 —The one congenitally deaf. 

22 10 —One born dead, one lived one hour, one two days, one 

four days, one five days. 

23 3 - Mother deaf in one ear. 

24 3 

25 5 

26 4 — Paternal second cousin deaf. 

27 4 

28 3 —One blind. 

29 6 — All died in infancy ; parents second cousins. 

30 4 4 — The four congenitally deaf. 

31 3 — Mother has one deaf relative. 

32 

33 1 1 — Each parent adventitiously deaf. 

34 4 — All "hard of hearing." 

35 2 7 — One congenital; each parent has deaf relatives. 



40 



36 3 

37 1 5 — The one congenital; father has deaf relatives. 

38 2 

39 

40 1 — Died in infancy— a "few months old." 

41 1 

42 11 — Three died in infancy. 

EIGHTY-ONE ADVENTITIOUS CASES. 

1 5 — Maternal aunt deaf. 

2 10 — Parents cousins. 

3 7 — Two maternal second cousins adventitiously deaf. 

4 6 —Two paternal aunts deaf. 

5 to 32 93 — Xo deaf relatives. 

33 — Maternal second cousin deaf. 

34 2 — Maternal uncle deaf ; parents second cousins. 

35 3 — One brother paralytic and blind. 

36 5 — Mother partially deaf; one child died few days old. 

37 4 — One died when five months old; paternal grandfather 

deaf. 

38 2 7 — The three adventitiously deaf before two years. 

39 — Maternal aunt deaf. 

40 2 — Has maternal deaf relative. 

41 2 (half) — Paternal second cousin deaf; parents fourth cous- 

ins. 

42 1 1 — Father, mother, two maternal uncles, two maternal 

great uncles and aunts, and several maternal second 
cousins deaf, mother only congenital as reported. 

43 1 6 —The one adventitiously deaf. 

44 5 — Maternal second cousin adventitiously deaf. 

45 to 52 . . 32 — No deaf relatives. 

53 3 

54 11 

55 8 — Two died in infancy, and one "going deaf at 3 years." 

56 2 

57 3 — Has one great uncle and two great aunts, paternally, 

deaf. 

58 4 

59 6 

60 2 

61 2 — Parents third cousins. 

62 1 

63 3 — Parents second cousins. 

64 6 

65 4 — Three died in infancy; parents first cousins. 

66 6 

67 3 

68 

69 1 — Mother has cousin deaf. 



1 



I 



41 



70 2 

71 2 2 —The two adventitiously deaf. 

72 

73 

74 1 5 — Father has deaf cousin. 

75 1 4 

7C) t) — Parents first cousins. 

77 3 

78 2 

7'J () — Four died in infancy. 

80 (not deaf) 7 — Mother and several paternal uncles and aunts deaf. 

81 ( " " ) 7 — No deaf relatives. 



STATISTICS OF THE DEAF IN INDIANA AND 
THE UNITED STATES. 



Tlie first enumeration of deaf-mutes by the general goverment was 
made in 1830. The rate of increase in population and in deaf-mutes in 
botli Indiana and the United States since 1880 will be shown by the fol- 
lowing tables: 



INDIANA. 

Population. 
1?30 to IS-K)— lii'l- (■('lit. . 

to ls.-,o— 4+.I ]wr cent. . 
Is.iO to Iscii-- jum' cciir. . 

lsi;i) to IsTd— -^4.4 iicr ci'iit. . 
l.STO to ISSO— 17.17 per ft'iit.. 
18S0 to 1800—10 82 pel- cent. . 



Deaf-Mutes. 
n(;,7 per cent. 
I L'.l iier cent. 
■J'.I.O (lel- cent. 
4."i.:! per cent. 
W2:.i per cent. 
.0 per cent. 



UNITED STATES. 



Population. 
is:!0 to 1S40— :i'_'.7 per cent. 
JS40 to IS;")! I— '.I ]ii'r cent, 
is.-)() to iS(;ii-;;r..i; per cent. 

]Si;oto IS7(I— '-'LMi per cent., 

]S7(1 to issn— :;o.i per cent. 
18S0 to ls:io— ■_!4.8 per cent. 



D(>al-Miites. 
. 2r,.') per cent. 
. i^.;! per cent. 
. :;ii.s per cent. 
. l;i;,4 per cent. 
.1(10 0 per cent. 
. 22.0 iier cent. 



Tlie proportion of deaf-mutes to the general population in Indiana and 
the United Stales has varied from time to time, and will be shown by 
the following tables: 

INDIANA. UNITED STATES. 



i8;«) 

1840. 

ISC.O. 
1870. 
1880. 
1890. 



. 144, or 1 to 2,4:« 
. 312, or 1 to 2,."li;i 
. 5:i7, or 1 to l,s4ii 
. cot, or 1 to l.li.'-^ 
. .•<72, (jr 1 to 1,02,'< 
. l,7i;4, or 1 to 1,122 
.1,780, or 1 to l,2:il 



'.S30 .-.,3i;:;, or i to i,nii4 

is4(i (;,(;.S2, or 1 to 2,12:3 

]:;.">o 11,80:3, or 1 to 2,:3G.5 

isiiii 12,821, or 1 to 2,4.->2 

1,^70 ii;.2(r), or 1 to 2,:i7n 

Isso :3:;,><78, or 1 to lAxo 

1800 41,28:3, or 1 to l,.")i(; 

The great increase in 1880, however, was more apparant than real — 
the inaccuracy of pi'evious enumerations w-as simply "caught up" in the 
accuracy of the 1880 census, which was probably the most perfect enu- 
meration ever taken. The proportion in 1880 was one in eveiw 1,480, 
which seemed to have been the proportion in Euroiie for many long 
year.5. During all this time th^ true j^ri'port ion in the United States had 
been simply obscured by uncertain figures -the trutli had been eclipsed 
by error. 

Presuming the same conditions to exist in Indiana and the United 



42 



States, the rate of increase and proportion slioald be nearly nniform. 
But tlie conditions in the State and the United States, or in one decade 
compared with another, are not necessarily the same. Excessive in- 
crease in population; excessive mortality, from accidents or ordinary 
causes; the absence of epidemics; geographical position; race cluirac- 
teristics; better medical skill and care of sick children because of "better 
times," etc., etc., exert a positive influence, in given territories or periods, 
which must show results. The difference is all the more marked when in- 
exact enumerations are made, as seems to have been the case prior to 1880. 

PKE^ENT AGES — 1810. 

Of the 1,780 deaf-mutes in Indiana, 69 were between one and six years 
old; 726 between six and twenty-one; 703 between twenty-one and forty- 
five; 136 between forty-five and fifty-five; 123 above fifty-five; and 22 had 
no age given. 

Of the 41,283 deaf-mutes in the United States in 1890, there were in 
infancy 938; childhood, 4,481; youth, ll,42t); adult life, 18,029; old age, 
5,914; unknown, 492. 



SUPERINTENDENTS AND TEACHERS. 



PRINCIPALS AND SUPERINTENDENTS. 



* William Willard Principal October 1, 1843. . .To July 1, 1845. 

*James S. Brown Superintendent., Tuly 1, 1845 " July 7, 1853. 

*Thomas Maclntire.. . " July 7, 1853 " May 29, 1879. 

Wm. Glenn •' May 29, 1879 " Dec. 15, 1884. 

Eli P. Baker " December 15, 1884 " July 1, 1889. 

Richard 0. Johnson. . " July 1, 1889 



A FULL LIST OF INSTRUCTORS- 1843 TO 1893. 

"No lionor.s of war to our worthie.s belong; 
Their plain stem o£ life never flowered into song; 
l?iit the fountains tliey opened still gush by the way, 
And the world for their healing is better to-day." 



* William Willard 1843 to 1863 

*James S. Brown 1845 " 1852 

*Charles Axtell 1847 " 1852 

*Wui. Breg. Jr 1848 " 1849 

Lukri S. Johnson 1849 " 1850 

Wm. n. DeMotte 18.50 " 1864 

Jeremiah Tingley 18.50 " 1852 

*Chas.AV.Moores •..1852 " 1855 

Philip (J. Gillett 1852 " 1856 

Wm. II. Latham 1853 

Samuel Diinlap 1854 " 1856 

Philip A. Emery 1856 " 1860 

^Cornelia Trask 1856 " 1859 

AnnaB. Very 1856 " 1858 

Benjamin Nordyke 1856 " 18fi0 

*II. S. (iillet 1856 " 1882 

W. S. Marshall 1859 " 1862 

John E.Townsend 18()() " 1861 

Sidney J. Vail 1860 

Wm. M. French 1860 " 1868 

Wm. M. I'oung 1860 " 1861 

Ezra W. Brown 1863 " 1867 

Mary J. Willard 1864 " 1867 

Harriet N. Maclntire. ..1864 " 1866 

August J. Boden 1864 " 1865 

*Walter W. Angus 1865 " 1879 

Wm. S. jNIarshall 18(56 " 1869 

Harriet N. Maclntire ..18t)7 " 1873 

Wm. N. ]5urt 1867 " 1889 

Annie E.Cooke 1868 " 1869 

*John L. Iloudyshell. . .1868 " 1885 

Naomi S. Iliatt 1868 " 1881 

Eugene W . Wood 1869 " 1871 

*Deceasetl. 



Susan Wallace 1869 to 1870 

Joseph C. Gordon 1869 " 1873 

Y. IloUoway 1868 " 1869 

Sarah Williams 1870 " 1873 

Susan V. Maclntire. .. .1871 " 1872 

Isabella Gillet 1871 " 1881 

Sadie J. Crabbs 1871 " 1877 

Jasper J. (.'ross 1872 " 1873 

Laura Sheridan 1872 " 1880 

Ezra G. Yalentine 1873 " 187<^ 

Henry C. Hammond ..1873 " 1878 

Frances E. (ioode 1873 " 1874 

*V. Holloway 1873 " 1874 

Anna Hendricks 1874 " 187& 

Wm. R. Corwin 1874 " 1877 

Frances Maclntire 1876 " 1879 

Eliz. Thacher 187() " 1879 

EmmaE. (ioree 1877 " 1878 

Wm. A. Caldwell 1877 " 1879 

Orson Archibald 1878 " 1880 

Alfa Robertson 1878 " 1890 

Cornelia S. (Joode 1878 " 1879 

Noble B. McKee 1878 " 1879 

Lizzie E. Shroyer 1879 " 1885 

Henry Bierhaus 1879 

Chas. PI (ireogry 1879 " 1885 

xUigust Jutt 1879 

Sarah L. D. Summers. . . 1879 " 1885 

A)nia Hendricks 1879 

Emma B.Lowe 1880 " 1888 

Noble B. McKee 1880 

Sadie .1 . Cowin 1880 

Alice Freeman 1881 " 1885- 



44 



Jeinr.eA. V^'illisms 1881 to 1886 

Wm. A. Caldwell 1882 " 188(5 

N. F. Morrow 1885 

Cora E. Coe 1885 '• 1891 

Ida Kinsley 1885 

Ida Price 1885 " 1889 

Harriet (ioode 1885 " 1888 

Mary Coi win 1885 

May Williams 188t) '• 1888 

ramiie Lamme 188t) " 1890 

Orson Arcliibald 1888 

Albert Eerg 1888 



Olivia Ihiining 1888 to 1890 

Wm. H. DeMotte 1889 i— 

Lucy Kobiiison 1889 

Eva Ileiser 1890 C — ' 

Alice II. Todd 1891 " 1892 

Eiidora Bright 1891 

Letitia Hooth 1892 

S. W. Gilbert 1892 

Charles Keriiey 1892 

Carrie Marvin 1892 

Carrie Smith 1892 



TRUSTEES OF THE INSTITUTIOX FROM ITS ORGANIZATION. 

t*Jas. T>. Whitcomb Taniiary 15, 1844. . . . to November 14, 1844. 

t*RoYal Mayhew " 15,1844...." " 14,1844. 

t*Wra. Sheets " 15,1844...." " 14,1844. 

t*Henry Ward Beecher " 15,1844...." " 14,1844. 

t*Phineas D. Gurley " 15.1844...." " 14,1844. 

t*L. H.Jameson " 15,1844...." " 14,1844. 

t*Livingston Dunloi. " 15,1844...." " 14,1844. 

t* James JMorrison " 15,1844.... " " 14,1844. 

t*Hishop M. Simpson " 15, 1844. ..." March 22, 1844. 

*L. W. Rerry March 22.1844 " July 13, 1844. 

*Rishop M. Simpson July 13, 1844 " November 14, 1844- 

*Phineas D. Gurley April 2, 1845 " November 16, 1849. 

*L. H. Jameson " 2,1845 " April 1,1853. 

*W. W. Ilibben " 2,1845 " November 3, 1845. 

^Livingston Dunlop " 2,1845 : " February 5, 1853. 

*J. H. Thompson " 2,1845 " October 19, 1846. 

J.L.Smith November 3, 1845. .. " " 8,1846. 

*S. T. Gillett October 8, 1846 " March 17, 1847. 

*Wm. Sheets " 19,1846 " " 17,1848. 

*E. R. Ames November 4, 1847... " December 3, 1852. 

*Alfred Plarrison March 17, 1848 " June 1, 1852. 

*J. S. Rrown November 21, 1849. . " November 4. 1852. 

*Wm. J. Rrown June 1, 1852 " March 18, 1857. 

*Royal Mayhew November 4, 1852.. . " April 1, 1853. 

*Wm. Sullivan December 23, 1852.. " April 1, 1853. 

*James P. Drake Aprill, 1853 " " 2,1859. 

*Julius Nicholai " 1,1853 " " 2,1859. 

Johns. Spanu " 1,1853 " " 2,1859. 

*Finley Rigger " 1, 1853 " " 29, 1853. 

Jacob Walker ' 1, 1853 " July 7, 1853. 

*L. IT. Jame.son " 29, 1853 " April 2, 1859. 

*L. R. Stockton July 7, 1853 " " 2,1859. 

J.W. Keightl y April 2,1857 " " 2,1859. 

*W. II. Talbot ^ " 2,18 9 " " 4,1861. 

John M. Kitchen " 2,1859 " " 3,1873. 

TiUL-oipoiiiiing liuanl of Trustees. 



45 



Thos. W. Woolen xVpril 2, 1859 

*Andrew AVallace " 14, 1861 

*Jas. C. J3iut " 4, 1861 

P.H.Jameson " 1,1869 

*W. R. Ilogshire ' " 1, 1871 

Jesse K. Brown " 3, 1873 

*M., James May 1, 1875 

*John Fisiiback March 11, 1879 

*F. C.Johnson " 11,1879 

J. R. Cravens February 1, 1881 

*Thos. II. Harrison " 1, 1883 . . . . 

S. F. Urmston " 1,1883.... 

Jolui E. Greene " 20,1885.... 

I). W. Chambers January 5, 1887 

Thos. L. ]3rovvn March 5, 1889 

( 'has. F.Haugh " 5,1889 

Jos. L. ]]lase " 5,1891 



to April 4, 1861. 
" 1, 1869. 
" 1, 1871. 
'• 11, 1879. 
May 1, 1875. 
March 11, 1879. 
February 20, 1885. 
March 1, 1883. 
February 1, 1881. 
March 1, 1883. 
June, 1889. 
January 5, 1887. 
June, 1889. 
March 5, 1891. 



THE LAW GOVERNING THE INSTITUTION. 



Acts and sections of acts expressly repealed, or, beyond question, re- 
pealed by implication, have been omitted, as have also all acts and sec- 
tions of acts governing some particular matter, such as special building, 
improvements, etc., etc. The appropriation bill of each General Assem- 
bly usually contains one or more provisions concerning the finances of 
the Institution. Jtis believed that the following is a complete abstract 
of existing general law. 

THE OBLIGATION OF THE STATE AS SET OUT BY THE CONSTITUTION 
OF THE STATE, 1852. 

Sec. 190. Benevolent Institutions. It shall be ihe duty of the (Jen- 
eral Assembly to provide, by law, for the support of the institutions for 
the education of the deaf and dumb, and of the blind, and, also, for the 
treatment of the insane. 

MAINTENANCE. 

Sec. 2805 li. S. Appropriations. The General Assembly shall, at each 
regular session, appropriate a sum necessary to meet the current ex- 
penses of tiie institution until the next regular session thereof. (Act 
1853.) 

Sec. 2758 ]{. S. Continuing Appropriation. Whenever there shall be a 
failure, at any regular biennial session of the (ieneral Assenibiy, to pass 
an appi'ojjriation bill or bills making appropriations for the objects and 
purposes liereinafter mentioned, it shall be lawful for the Governor, Sec- 
retary, and Treasurer of State, until appropriations shall be nuide by tlie 
Legislature, to direct the Auditor of State to draw his warrants on the 
State Treasury for such sums as they may, from time to time, decide to 
be necessary for sncn purposes respectively, not however exceeding the 
amounts appropriated for the sauie objects respectively by the last pre- 
ceding appropriations which shall have been made by the General As- 
sembly: and to pay such warrants as may, from time to time, be drawn 
and presented, a sutlicient sum of money is liB'-eby approi)riated. (Act 
186i).) 

Sec. 2759 li. S. Application of Money. The objects or purposes for 
which such warrants may be drawn shah be the following, viz.: For the 
necessary current expenses of the Hospital for the Insane, for the like 
expenses of the Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, for the like expenses 
of the Institution for the Blind, for tli? like expenses for the Soldiers' 
Home, and for the like expenses of the House of Befuge. (Act 18()9.) 

Sec. 27(50 H. S. Warrants on (ieneral Fund. Tlie warrants so to be 
drawn shall be drawn on the general fund and not otiierwise, and sliall 



47 



not include any sum or sums for enlarging said institutions, or any or 
either of them, but shall be confined strictly to the necessary current ex- 
penses of said institutions respectively; and said allowances shall be 
made, monthly, upou the certificate of the president of the proper board 
of trustees of the said institutions respectively, showing in detail the 
necessity for the amount demanded, and that it has been approved by 
such board; which certificate shall be countersigned by the superintend- 
ent of the particular institution, for which the expense was incurred. 
[Act 1869.) 

Sec. 2761 R. S. Limit of Allowance. In making said monthly allow- 
ances, it shall be the duty of officers, as aforesaid authorized io make 
the same, not to exceed in any month one-twelfth of the amount appro- 
priated for the current expenses of the same institution for the last 
preceding year for which an appropriation shall have been made by the 
General Assembly. (Act 1869.) 

AVIIO SHALL BE PUPILS. 

(Act 1853—3 Sees.) 
Sec. 280S R. S. Non-resident Pupils. Pupils from without the 
State may be admitted to the privileges of the institution, on the pay- 
ment of such sum as the Board may consider sufiicient to defray ex- 
peiises. 

Sec. 2809 R. S. Education Free to Residents. All mutes of the 
State sliall be entitled to education in the institution free of charge, un- 
der such regidations as to age, capacity, character, and punctual at- 
tendance as the board of trustees shall adopt. 

Sec. 2810 R, S. Expulsion of Pupils. The trustees shall expel from 
the institution any pupil whose longer continuance in the same would 
be injurious thereto. 

SUPPORT OV PUPILS. 

(Art 1865—6 Sees.) 

Sec. 2762 K. S. Application for Admission. AVhenever application is 
made for the admission of any blind or deaf-mute person into the 
State Institution for the Education of the Blind, or that for the Deaf 
and Dumb, or the Hospital for the Insane, as n, beneficiary of the privi- 
leges thereof, such application shall be accompanied by t!:e certificate 
of a Justice of the Peace, that such i)erson is a legal resident of the 
county of the State of Indiana in which it is claimed that he or she 
resides. 

Sec. 27()3 R S. Clothing and Traveling Expenses. When such person 
shall, upon proper application, be admitted as a. pupil of either of the 
institutions named, it shall be the duty of his parents, guardians, or oth- 
er friends to suitably provide him with clothing at the time of his en- 
ttance into the school, and during his continuance therein; also to 
defray his traveling expenses to and from the institution, not only at 
the time of his first entrance and final departure, but at any other time 
when it shall become necessary for him to leave or return to the school. 



48 



Sec. 2764 R. S. When State Provides. In all cases where suitable 
clothing, and means for defraying traveling expenses, are not otherwise 
supplied to the pupils of said institutions, the same shall be provided by 
the respective superintendents thereof, who shall make out and tile 
with the Treasurer of State accounts therefor, separate in each case, 
against the respective counties from which such pupils are sent, in an 
amount not exceeding forty dollars per annum for every such pupil; 
which accounts shall be severally signed by the proper superintendent, 
and attested by the seal of the Institution under liis charge; and the 
Treasurer of Stale siiall charge each account, thus certified, to the county 
from which the pupil named therein was sent. 

Sec. 2765 R. S. Ile-imbursement by County. The Treasurer of State 
shall forward each account, so filed with him, to the Treasurer of the pro- 
per county, who shall cause it to be paid out of tlie county treasury to 
the Treasurer of State; and such County Treasurer sliall in the name of 
the county, and by suit if necessary, collect the amount of such account 
from the parents or estate of such pupil, as the case may be, where there 
is ability to pay: Provided, That at least three hundred dollars of the 
property of such parents sliall be exempt from the payment of such ac- 
count. 

Sec. 2766 K. S. Funeral Expenses. In case of the deatli of any pu- 
pil at either of the Institutions aforesaid, whose funeral expenses are 
not otherwise provided for, an account therefor shall be made out, at- 
tested, and collected in like manner as provided in the preceding sec- 
tions. 

Sec. 27.')" Pi. S. Ilemoval and Ex;)ense. Whenever it shall be deemed 
necessary by the proper ollicers (if either of said institutions, in accord- 
ance with tlie by-laws and regulations tliereof, to have any pupil removed- 
either temporarily, on account of ill-he:;ltli or the vacation of the school' 
or permanently on account of having completed his course of instruction 
or been found disqualified from any cause for a longer continuance in 
the school, the parents orguardiaus of such pupil, if he liave any. shall 
promptly remove him upon the requirement of said officers; and in case 
he shall not be thus provided for, it shall be the duty of the superintend- 
ent of such iustitutidu to cause him to be so removed and delivered to the 
Trustee (if the liiwi.sliip where he resided before coming to said institu- 
tion ; and the expense of sucli removal shall be ref un.ded to each institu- 
tion, in the same maimer as provided in sections three and four (sections 
2764 and 2765); and the Ccunty Treasurer shall charge the same to the 
proper to wnsliip, and collect it in the manner as provided in aforesaid 
sections. 

TKTT.STEKS. 

Acts l88St. Sec. 1. Number -Organization— r>ond. 15e it enacted by 
the (General Assembly of tlie State of IiuUana, That the government and 
management of the Indiana Hospital for the Insane, of the Institution 
for the Education of the Hlhid, and of the Institution for the Education 
of the Deaf and Dumb, shall be and hereby is vested in three several 



49 



Boards, consisting of three Trustees for each of said Institutions, whose 
terms of office shall be four years. The said Boards shall each on their 
organization, and every two years thereafter, elect one of their number 
President, and also elect one of their number secretary, and one Treasur- 
er. Two Trustees of each Board shall constitute a quorum for the trans- 
action of Dusiness; each of said Trustees shall within thirty days from 
the time of their election execute to the State of Indiana a bond in tlie 
sum of ten thousand dollars, with sureties to be approved by the Gover- 
nor, conditioned for their faithful discharge of their duties. And the 
Treasurer of said Board shall also within thirty days from the time of 
his election execute his bond to the State of Indiana in the sum of fifty 
thousand dollars with sureties to be approved by the Governor condi- 
tioned for the faithful discharge of his duties as such Treasurer. 

Sec. 2. Time to Serve. The General Assembly shall select, (see below) 
on the taking effect of this act, three Trustees for each x>t said Institu- 
tions, two members of each Board to serve four years, and one member 
of each board to serve two years, and their successors shall be elected 
by the General Assembly. 

Acts 1893. Sec. 1. How Appointed. Be it enact.-d by the General 
Assembly of the State of Indiana, That the governor be, and is hereby 
authorized an.d empowered to appoint all otlioers (trustees) for all benev- 
olent, educational, penal, reformatory and other institutions of the State^ 
whose election or appointment is now vested in the General Assembly 
by law: (Institution for the deaf and otliers). 

Sec. 2. Terms — Vacancies. Such appointments shall be made by the 
Governor at the times and for the terms provided by law for the election 
or appointment of such officers. And the Governor shall have the power 
to on all vacancies that may occur from any cause whatsoever, in any of 
the offices aforesaid in like manner as provided in tliis act for the original 
appointment or such officers. 

Sec. 3. liemovals. The Governor shall have power to remove any of- 
licer by him appointed, or any officer now holding office, tlie appointment 
to which office is embraced in, or governed by the provisions of this act 
for incoMiiK'tency, malfeasance in office, or for any other cause that to 
him may seem just, furnishing to the officer comphiined of, at the time 
of such removal, a statement of the cause or causes of removal. 

Sec. 2770 R. S. Oath. The said Trustees shall, each, before entering 
upon the duties of office, take an oath to faithfully discharge their several 
duties as such officers. (.\ct 1879.) 

Sec. 2772 11. S. By-laws— Meetings— Bills. The trustees of each of 
said institutions shall be and constitute a board lor the manageinent of 
the business and affairs thereof, with power to make all proper rules, 
regulations, and by-laws for its government. They shall have a regular 
meeting at or about the close of each month; and shall meet at least one 
other time during each month, for the purpose of informal consultation 
or the transaction of current or incidental business. They shall keep a 



50 



record of their proceedings and acts, and of moneys I'eceived or paid out, 
and of all orders drawn or paid. TsTo moneys shall be paid out or ex- 
pended, except upon an itemized bill first presented and allowed by the 
board. Sucli bill shall be signed and sworn to by the claiment, and 
such payment shall be made by an order signed by the president drawn 
upon the treasurer of the institution, payable ten days from the drawing 
thereof; and no bill shall be allowed for more that the lowest cost value 
of the articles purchased or services or materials paid for; and all con- 
tracts made for articles, materials, or services, shall be subject to allow- 
ance by said board. (Act 1879.) 

Sec. 2773 R. S. Statement of Unpaid Orders. The treasurer shall from 
time to time, before such orders become due, piesent to the Auditor of 
State a statement of all orders drawn and unpaid, giving the date and 
number and amount of each order, and the person to whom payable, 
which shall be signed and sworn to by the treasurer and certified to by 
the president of the board; and the Auditor of State shall thereupon 
draw an order for the amount, in favor of such treasurer, upon the 
Treasurer of State, who shall pay the amount out of any money in his 
hands subject to sucli payment. The A uditor of State shall open and 
keep an account with the treasurer of each of said institutions, and shall 
charge him with the orders so drawn upon the State Treasury. The 
treasurer of said institutions shall, at the close of each month, return to 
the Auditor of State an itemized statement of the orders paid by him 
and the amounts thereof, signed and sworn to as being correct, and, with 
such statement, shall return to the Auditor the orders so paid; the 
Auditor of State shall thereupon credit the said treasurer with the 
amount so paid out by him, and shall carefully preserve all such orders 
and statements. (Act 187S).) 

Sec. 2770 II. S. Expenses— Report— Nepotism Forbidden. The board 
of trustees shall have power to make allovvances for the payment of any 
money required or authorized by law to be paid, or for the improvement, 
preservation, and care of their several institutions, and the grounds and 
property connected therewith, and the expenses thereof, the payment of 
employes and other expenses; but such allowances shall only be made 
upon an itemized statement of the superintendent, showing the cause 
and necessity therefor, and all payments shall be made only by orders 
drawn on the treasurer of such institution in the manner herein provided. 
They shall severally make a report to the (iovernor, attlie close of each 
fiscal year, giving a full statement of their receipts, disbursements, and 
operations during the year preceding: the number of inmates received, 
discharged, and then in the institution; the cost per capita for the year; 
the estimated cost of the succeeding year; and all things necessary to 
show the condition and management of the same, together with any rec- 
ommendations or suggestions they may deem proper for the better and 
more efiicient government or welfare thereof; which reports the (ilov- 
ernor shall transmit to the (Jeneral Assembly, with his message, at each 
regular sessior. thereof. In such reports they shall sliovv what amount 
has been expended for repairs upon tlie buildings and lor ])ermanent 




THOIVIAS. L. 
PresidenT Board 



BROWN, 
of Trustees. 



51 



improvements, in a separate account from the ordinary expenses of the 
institution. They shall not appoint, nor allow to be appointed, any 
relative of their own, or of either of them, either by blood or marriage; 
and they shall not allow auy of the relatives or members of the family, 
except the wife and children of such officers whose regular home has 
been and is with him, of any superintendent or ether subordinate or 
employe to be kept, maintained, or supported in the institution, with- 
out charging to such persons the full value of such maintenance and 
support, unless such relative or member of the family be regularly 
employed and paid as one of the subordinates or employes thereof. (Act 
1879.) 

Sec. 2778 li. S. .Salaries. The trustees of the Institution for the Educa- 
tion of the Deaf and Dumb jjhall be paid salaries, payable quarterly, at the 
rate of four hundred dollars, eacli, per annum (out of regular mainten- 
ance fund for institution.) (Act 1879.) 

Sec. 2781 11. S. Borrowing Forbidden. It shall be unlawful for the 
board of trustees of any benevolent, scientific, reformatory, or educa- 
tional institution of the State to borrow money upon the credit of the 
State, or to contract auy indebtedness on tlie credit of tlie State, or to 
make expenditures for improvements for said institutions in any way, 
unless the said loans or expenditure of money are first authorized by 
an Act of the General Assembly for such purposes. (Act 1875.) 

Sec. 2782 R. S. Penalty. Any trustee or trustees, of any such institu- 
tion who shall violate the provisions of the f(u-egoing section, shall be 
deemed guitly of a misdemeinor, and, upon conviction tliereof, shall 
be fined in any sum not less than five hundred dollars, and shall for- 
feit his office upon conviction; which forfeiture shall be jiart of the 
judgment of the Court. (Act 1875.) 

SUPERINTENDENT. 

Sac. 2774 li. S. Superintendent and Subordinates. The board of each 
of said institutions shall appoint a superintendent thereof, who may re- 
side in the institution: and the superintendents, with the ajjproval of the 
board, may appoint such suborduiate officers, secretaries, assistants, phy- 
sicians, teachers, attendants, and employes as may be necessary; but the 
board shall prescribe the number to be employed, and provide rules for 
their government and control, and fix the amount of compensation for 
tlieir services, including the superintendent, who shall not be paid more 
than two thousand dollars per annum. Such superintendent shall be 
sklileil and qualified, by education and practice, to take charge of the in- 
stitution for wliicli he is appointed, and shall give a bond for the faithful 
performance of his duties and for the payment of all damages arising 
from their non-performance. Such bond shall be payable to tlie State of 
Indiana, in such sum as required by the board and to their approval; and 
suit may be brought thereon by the State, or by the Stale on the relation of 
any person injured. Tlie superintendents shall take personal charge and 
supervision of their respective institutions and of tlie inmates therein and 
of the subordinate ofiicers, teachers, attendants, and employes connected 



52 



therewith, subject to the rules and regulations prescribed and to the or- 
ders and general control of the board of trustees. He may, for good 
cause, discharge any of such subordinates and employes, and appoint 
other competent persons in their places; which appointment shall con 
tinue only until the next meeting of the board, at v/hich time the super- 
intendent shall report all such changes, and the causes therefor; and the 
board may confirm such appointments; and, if not confirmed he shall 
make other suitable appointments, subject to the confirmation of said 
board. (Act 1879.) 

Sec. 2771 E. S. Annual Inventory — Report. .'Such superintendents or 
managers shall, within thirty days after the taking effect of this Act, 
each make out and deliver to the proper board of trustees of each of said 
institutions a complete itemized inventory and statement, subscribed 
and sworn to by him, setting forth in detail all the property, both real 
and personal, belonging to said institutions, or belonging to the State and 
connected therewitli, or in use in and about the same. Such statement 
shall give the quality and condition of such property and the value 
thereof, where it is and for what purpose or in what way it is used, and 
shall also give a detailed and itemized account of all productions raised 
and comsumed, and of each parcel of property, including hides, tallow, 
flowers, farm products, goods, or merchandise, and all other articles, 
sold or otherwise disposed of during the year last past, by such superin- 
tendent or managers or by the trustees or subordinates of said institution; 
to whom the same was sold, and for what price; who received the money 
and for what purpose it was used. Said statement shall contain a detail- 
ed itemized statement of all e.-cpenditures, during the past year, for 
repairs upon buildings or grounds, and for furniture and other articles 
purchased for the use of said institutions, or in and about the same; 
and a detailed and itemized statement of all articles of wearing apparel, 
goods, merchandise, or property received during the past year with or for 
any of the inmates; what became of such property; whether any, if so, 
what, amounts are on hand yet; what amount of like goods or wearing 
apparel has been during said time, purchased for each of the inmates, 
and what amount of moneys have been received therefor and from what 
counties so received, who received such moneys, and for what purpose 
they have been used. 

It shall also give a general account of the affairs of the institution, 
the number of inmates received, and from what counties they came, the 
inimber discharged and the cause thereof, and the condition of the in- 
mates, and the wants and requirements of the institution. A like re- 
port, inventory, and statement shall be annually made, on t)\e thirty- 
first day of October in each year, to each of the said boards of trustees 
who may prescribe additional and other matter to be included therein. 
Such reports, after the examination and action thereon by the boards, 
shall be delivered to the Governor, who shall transmit them to the 
General Assembly, at each regular session thereof. (Act 1879.) 

Sec. 2775 K. S. Purchase of Supplies— Monthly Report. The^sin^er- 
intendent shall at or about the close of each month, make out, for the in- 



53 



formation of the board, an itemized statement and estimate of the amount 
and kind of purchases required for the next succeeding montli; and 
it shall be the duty of the board of trustees to solicit competition among 
dealers for the sale of such articles and goods as may be required, by pub- 
lication or otherwise; and to this end they shall keep such statement and 
estimate open to public inspection, and shall give personal attention to 
the bids for and the purchase of such articles and goods, and use their best 
endeavors to obtain them at the lowest public prices. The superintend- 
ents shall also make out and file \vith the board, at each regular meeting, 
an itemized statement of all moneys paid out or expense incurred for 
each of the inmates since the last report, showing the counties to which 
the inmates belong, and the total amount chargeable to each county. 
fSuch statements shall be filed with the Treasurer of fState, who shall 
charge the same to the proper county and collect the amount due from 
such county at each settlement with the Treasurer thereof; and such 
moneys shall be covered into the general fund of the .State Treasury. 
The superintendent sliall also, at each regular meeting, make out and 
file with the board a complete and itemized statement of all money 
received, since his last report, from the sale of hides, tallow, farm or 
garden products, or Howers, and from any and all other sources what- 
ever, stating the dale and transaction, and from whom the money was 
received. Such money shall be, by him, at that time, paid over to 
the treasurer of the institution, who shall give his receipt therefor, and 
shall immediately pay the same over to the Treasurer of State, who shall 
give his receipt therefor, and cover and transfer the amount into the 
general fund of the treasury ; and all moneys payable, by law, to or for 
the benefit of either of said institutions, except the appropriation made 
therefor, shall in all cases be paid over to the State Treasurer, who shall 
cover and transfer the same into the general fund of the treasury. (Act 
1879). (l^artly changed by Industrial act 1891 so far as receipts from 
shops are concerned; see forward.) 

INUUSTKIAL KDUCATION. 
{Act 1891.) 

WiiEKEAs, 'i he instruction of theii pupils in some industrial art, 
whereby they may be enabled to earn their own support, is recognized 
to be an important work of the Indiana Institution;? for the Education 
of the Deaf and Dumb, the Blind and the Feeble-Minded; and, 

WiiEREA.s. At the present time the industrial education, or certain 
parts thereof, of the pupils in some of tiie said institutions is being con- 
ducted by contractors who give instruction in return for the labor of the 
pupils; and, 

AVheukas, Such instruction has been in the past, and now is, unsatis- 
factory, insufiicient, incomplete and partial; and. 

Whereas, It is manifestly against arood public policy that the labor 
of the inmates of the benevolent institutions of the State should be 
made a matter of private gain; and. 



54 



Whereas, The present usual maintenance funds of the said benev- 
olent institutions under existins; laws are not sufficient to enable the 
Trustees to carry on the industrial education in a proper manner; 
therefore, 

Sec. 1. J3e it enacied by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana, 
That the hiring out of the labor of the pupils of the benevolent institu- 
tions of the State under any form of contract be, and the same is hereby 
absolutely forbidden. 

Sec. 2. Tiie superintendents of the aforesaid benevolent institutions, 
namely, the Indiana Institution for the Education of the Deaf and 
Dumb, the Indiana Institution for the Education of the Blind, the In- 
diana School for Feeble-Mind Youth, acting under the control and super- 
vision of the respective boards of trustees of said institutions are hereby 
authorized and required to provide for appropriate industrial education 
of their pupils under similar rules and methods to those of scholastic 
instruction, namely, by means of teachers hired by Superintendents as 
other teachers are hired and subject on all points to the same control as 
all other teachers, officers, ana employes of the said institutions. 

Sec. 3. The industrial education of the said pupils in the aforesaid in- 
stitutions and school shall, as far as possible, be conducted in such man- 
ner as to make said pupils fit and able to earn their own support when 
they shall have been graduated or otherwise discharged from said in- 
stitutions or school, and not chietly or mainly, so as to make any profit 
or revenue. 

Sec. 4. The necessary cost of materials, machinery, if any, and in- 
struction for the industrial education in the aforesaid institutions and 
school shall be a cliarge upon and defrayed out of tlie regular main- 
tenance funds of the same except as hereinafter provided. 

Sec. 5. The superintendents of the institutions and scliool aforesaid 
shall be authorized to dispose by sale of any material used in the indus- 
trial education of the pupils in tlie same manner as now provided by 
law for the sale of waste or suplus material: Provided, That no material 
so used by the pupils shall be disposed of at a lower price than the cur- 
rent market price for similar articles at the time when they are sold- 
And, further provided. That if tlie material to be disposed of be avail- 
able for the use of any other of the institutions of the State the same 
shall be purchased by them, and paid for in the same manner that they 
pay for any materia' or supplies tliat they may purchase. 

Sec. (5. The superintendent of each of the inscitutions and the scho jl 
aforesaid shall pay to the Treasurer of State the gross proceeds of the 
sale of any material as provided for in the previous section, as now re- 
quired by law, whereupon the Treasurer of State shall give the said su- 
perintendent a receipt for the amount, which receipt shall specify that 
the amount is the produce of the sale of material used in the industrial 
education of the pupils. Tlie superintendent shall tliereui)on deposit the 
said receii)t with the Auditor of State, who shall give him a quietus for 
the amount, and shall place the amount of the same to the credit of the 



55 



maintenance fund of the institution or scliool, and not, as lieretofore 
provided by law, to the credit of General fund of the State. 

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS. 

Sec. 2777 11. S. Unexpended Balances. The Treasurer of State shall, 
biennially, cover and transfer into the general fund of tlie treasury all 
moneys appropriated and unexpended at tlie close of the fiscal year, 
immediately preceding each regular session of the General Assembly. 
(Act 1879.) 

Sec. 2779 li. S. Restrictions on Officers. It shall be unlawful for any 
person connected with said institution as president, trustees or super- 
intendent, subordinates or employes, to be pecuniarily interested in any 
contract for or purchase of supplies or materials, or to make or receive 
any profits, per centages, or deductions, or any reward or benefit what- 
ever out of the management or operation, or business of tlie said institu- 
tions, other than the fees and compensation for his services established 
and allowed by law. (Act 1879.) 

Sec. 2780 K. S. J'enalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of 
this Act, (1879) shall, upon conviction, be punished by imprisonment in 
the State Prison for a period not less than six months and not more than 
five years, and siiall be fined in any sum not more than five thousand 
■dollars. (Act 1879.) 

Sec. 2795 11. S. Expenditures for Building. Xo expenditures for build- 
ing purposes shall be made for the benefit of said ii'stitution, unless the 
same shall be recommended by the board of trustees and consented to by 
the Governor, Secretary, Auditor, and Treasurer of State, or a majority 
thereof. (Act 1853.) 

Act 1885. Sec. 11. Public Printing Act. * * * That the reports al- 
lowable and published under the provisions of this act, shall be * * * 
two thousand copies of the Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. 

Act 1891. Sec. 1. Concerning Slops. Jje it enacted by the the General 
Assembly of the State ot Indiana, That it shall be unlawful for any officer 
or officers of any of the institutions of this State to purcliass, sell, barter 
or give away to any other otlicer or officers of any of said institutions or 
to appropriate to his or their own use any of the slops, or offal of ar.y 
of said public nistitutions of this State. 

Sec. 2. Penalty. Any nerson guilty of the violation of any of the 
provisions of this act shall be deemed guilty of a felony, and, upon con- 
viction thereof, shall be imprisoned in the State's Prison, not less than 
two or more than fourteen years, and shall be disfranchised and render- 
ed incapable of holding any office of trust or profit for any determinated 
period. 

Sec. 28U6 S. Sectarianism. Xo sectarian tenets of religion shall be 
taught in the institutiou to any pupil thereof. (Act 1853.) 

Sec. 391(5 R. S. "81. Railroads. * * * Xo railroad shall be located 



56 



upon or across the grounds of the State occupied by the Institutions for 
the Insane, the Blind, or tlie Deaf and Dumb. (Act 1853.) 

Acts 1889. Concerning Kailroads. lie it enacted by the General As- 
sembly of the State of Indiana, That the Board of Trustees of any Asy- 
um in this State may and are hereby given the power to make and 
enter into a contract permitting any railroad company to lay their line of 
railroad along, over and across the lands so occupied by such asylum, 
and so belonging to the State; provided, Such contract shall be in writ- 
ing, signed by the parties tliereto, and the same shall be in effect from 
and after the time such contract shall be filed in the oHice of the Secre- 
tary of State: provided, That no railroad shall be located upon or across 
the ground occupied by such asylums unless such line shall run and 
operate upon its line dummy cars and engines, or unless it be a horse, 
cable or electric street railway. 

Sec. 6337 li. S. Lists of Deaf and Dumb. It shall be the duty of 
assessors at time of assessing personal property, to ascertain and set 
down in tables prepared for that purpose a list of all persons in their re- 
spective townships who are deaf and dumb * * * setting forth the 
name, age, and sex ofeacli, also the names of the father, mother or 
guardian and post ollice address; * * * vvhich lists they shall return 
to the county auditors. * * * The said county auditors shall report 
the same to the chief of the Bureau of Statistics * * and said 
chief shall lay before the Superintendents of the institution for * * 

* the Deaf and Dumb copies of the lists so made. (Act 1881.) 

Acts 1889. Board of State Charities. Sec. 2. They * * * shall in- 
vestigate the whole system of public charities and correctional institu- 
tions of the Staie, examine into the condition and management thereof 

* * *: and the officers in charge of all such institutions shall furnish 
to the Board, on their request such information And statistics as they 
may require; and, to secure accuracy, uniformity and completeness in 
such statistics the Board may ])re3cribe such forms of report and 
registration as they may deem essential. * * * The ]>oard in its dis" 
cretion, may at any time, make an investigation, by the whole ]5oard or 
by a committee of its members, of the management of any penal, re- 
formatory, or charitable institution of the State: and said Board or com- 
mittee, in making any such investigation, shall have power to send for 
persons and papers and to administer oaths and affirmations: and 
the report of such investigation, with the testimony shall be made to tlie 
(roverner, and shall be submitted by him, with his suggestions, to the 
Geiieral Assembly. 



CHARLES E. HAUGH, 
Treasurer Board of Trustees. 



RULES OF TRUSTEES AND OF SUPERIN- 
TENDENT. 



The Institution is governed by a Board of Trustees, three in number, 
who are appointed by the Governor of the State, and who hold office for 
the term of four years. This Board elects the Superintendent, who in 
turn makes all other appointments, subject, however, to confirmation by 
the Board. The following extract from "llules and Eegulations" will ex- 
plain these matters. 

A¥ ORDER OF THE BOARD. 

{Passed September 4, 1890.) 

MEETINGS. 

I. Two regular meetings of the Board shall be held each month; one 
at the Institution on the Thursday following the first Monday, at 10 
A. M., for the auditing of accounts and all general business of the Insti- 
tution, excepting purchase of sunplies; one at the State House on the 
last Friday of each month, at 10 a. m., for the purchase of supplies for 
the succeeding month, and such other business as may need immediate 
attention. 

II. Special meetings of the Board may be called by any two members 
thereof signing a call. 

ELECTION OF OFFICERS. 

III. The Superintendent of the Institution shall be elected at the first 
regular meeting in July, and hold his oflice for such a term as may be 
fixed by the Board, dating from September 1st following, and until his 
successor is elected and qualified. The appointments of the Superintend- 
ent shall be reported to the Board from time to time as they are made. 
Should any of them be for a year, they shall be reported at the first reg- 
ular meeting in August, same to take effect September 1st following. 

THE SUPERINTENDENT. 

IV. The Superintendent shall be the executive head of the Institu- 
tion and the organ of communication with subordinate departments. 

V. Into the hands of the Superintendent is committed the manage- 
ment of the Institution in all its departments; and the subordinate offi- 
cers, teachers and others, are to adhere to the plans of operation which 
he may mark out, and promptly and cheerfully comply with all his di- 



58 



rections, not only in tins performance of tlie duties as may be by liim 
apecifled in "Rules of tbe Superintendent," but also in such others as it 
may be deemed just and proper to assign tliem. 

VI. Xo subordinate officer, teacher or employe, shall contravene or 
interfere with the directions given at any time by the Superintendent to 
the pupils, or to the persons by him employed; and shall report to him 
any neglect or act of disobedience. 

VJI. By statutory enactment he has powers concerning operatives, 
as follows: (1) He shall appoint all officers, teachers, secretaries, as- 
sistants, physicians, attendants and employes as may be necessary, but 
this Board shall prescribe the number thereof, confirm or reject the ap- 
pointments and lix the amount of compensation. (2) He shall take 
personal charge and supervision of the Institution and of the inmates 
therein, and have the direction of all persons connected therewith, 
subject to the order and control of the Board of Trustees. (3) He may, 
for good cause, discharge any of said persons and appoint other compe- 
tent persons in their places. He shall report such changes, and the 
causes therefor, to the Hoard at the next meeting thereof; and also the 
appointments made because of such change for confirmation or rejec- 
tion. If rejected, he shall make other suitable appointments. 

VII r. In his management of the finances he shall practice the most 
rigid economy, consistent with the comfort of the pupils and the pros- 
perity of the Institution. 

IX. He shall, from time to time, communicate to the Trustees such 
information as he may think necessary, or as they may require, in regard 
to the operations of the Institution, and the manner in which the vari- 
ous officers, teachers and employes, perform their duties. 

X. He shall frequently inspect all parts of the establishment, and 
take the most efficient, or even stringent, measure for enforcing neatness, 
order and regularity in all departments. And it shall be his duty im- 
mediately to discharge any person employed who shall appear inefficient, 
neglect allotted duties, or manifest a spirit of insubordination. 

XI. It shall be his duty to attend all meetings of the IJoard of Trust- 
ees, and he may speak upon any matter under discussion. 

XII. He shall keep a list of all the regular employes not officers of the 
Institution, and at the monthly meetings of the Board he shall exhibit 
such list, with the duties and compensation of each person affixed there- 
to; and the Board shall thereupon proceed to allow to such persons the 
compensation to which they may be entitled. 

XIII. At any time, when he shall deem it necessary to make any re- 
pairs of the Institution, or purchase any supplies for the same (except 
in cases of immediate necessity), he shall make out a statement of the 
repairs to be made, or supplies to be purchased, and lay the same before 
the Board, who, if they deem such repairs or purchases necessary, shall 
order the same made under his direction. 

XIV. He shall receive all moneys which may be due the Institution, 



59 



and report the amount thereof, and the sources from whence derived, at 
each regular meeting of tlie Jionrd. 

XV. He shall teach the pupils to act from principle, and not from 
fear. He shall Inculcate respect and govern them, as much as possible, 
by the influence of moral suasion. 

XVL. He shall superintend and direct their physical, intellectual, in- 
dustrial and moral instruction. 

XVII. He shall pay special attention to their health and comfort. 
And when the boys are engaged in labor, he shall intrust them to some 
reponsible person connected witii the Institution. 

XVIII. No officer, teacher or employe under him shall be absent from 
his or her duties without his permission. 

XIX. In his temporary absence he shall designate some competent 
officer to perform his duties. 

XX. He shall, from time to time, give such directions and prescribe 
such rules for the government of the officers, teachers and employes, and 
the conduct and deportment of the pupils, as he may deem necessary. 

XXI. In thus taking general control he must pay especial attention 
to, and perform all duties prescribed by, legislative laws governing the 
Institution. 

XXII. This shall stand as authoritive on the subject matter until re- 
pealed, and in lieu of all previous orders and by-laws. 



RULES OF THE SUPERINTENDENT. 

GENERAL PRINCIPLES. 

It must be understood that this code of rules for the regulation of the 
Institution is based upon the following principles: 

I. That the Institution is established solely for the benefit of the pu- 
pils; to promote their highest physical, intellectual, industrial and moral 
improvement. Anything that will tend to bring about this improve- 
ment shall be considered as duty by all connected with the Institution. 

II. That the State pays officers, teachers and employes for their time 
and services, and consequently expects of them a fulfillment of their 
duties in a diligent, painstaking and conscientious manner, a departure 
from which will indicate a lack of interest in their work, and, in conse- 
quence thereof, an unfitness for the position occupied. 

III. That the Superintendent is directly and solely responsible to the 
Trustees for the correct and efficient management of the Institution in 
all its departments. 

TENURE OF OFFICE. 

I. The employment of officers and teachers will be for one year; of all 
others, for no definite period. 



CO 



II. Ill the employiiieut and contiiiuaiice of officers special ooiisider- 
atiou will be given to their qualifications as to moral character, practical 
skill in management and competency iu their particular work. 

III. In the employment and continuance of teachers special consider- 
ation will be given to their qualifications as to moral character, literary 
and practical skill in instruction and management. 

IV. In the employment and continuance of all others special consider- 
ation will be given to tiieir qualifications as to moral character and gen- 
eral competency in their work. 

V. Willful violation of rules, unfitness, or incompetence sliall be 
cause for dismissal. 

THE PKINCIPAL. 

J. The Principal shall visit all the school-rooms as often as practicable, 
paying particular attention to the classification of the pupils ami to the 
apportionment among the classes of the prescribed studies. 

II. It shall be his duty to instruct classes, examine and grade pupils, 
and to supervise the instruction and discipline of teachers within their 
respective rooms. 

III. He is authorized at any time during the year to promote pupils 
to a grade higher than the one to which they belong, or send them to the 
grade next below, as the best interests of the pupil and the school require. 
Such changes must be reported at once to the .Superintendent. 

IV. In passing daily from room to room, he shall endeavor to trans- 
fer improvements and remedy defects. 

V. He shall see that the teachers are promptly notified and duly ad- 
vised as to all rules and regulations pertaining to the government and 
classification of the school, and shall report to the Superintendent any re- 
fusal, after due and proper admonition, on the part of a teacher to com- 
ply with same. 

VI. He shall make report to the Superintendent from time to time of 
the success of each one of the teachers, with suggestions of change or 
improvement in the course of study or discipline, or on other topics 
of general interest as may be thought worthy of consideration. 

VII. In the performance of his duties he shall be entitled to the re- 
spect and deference of the teachers. 

VIII. During the temporary absence of the Superintendent he shall 
exercise the functions of that office so far as the school is concerned. 

TEACHERS. 

1. Teachers are to regard their duty to the Institution as of the first 
importance, and shall not allow other engagements or business to inter- 
fere with the duties of the same. 



II. They are expected to enter upon the opening service of their re- 
spective school-rooms at the precise minute appointed. They must be 



•;1 




JOSEPH L. 
Secretary Board 



BLASE. 

of Trustees. 



61 



present lu their class-rooms ill time I'or tiie arrival oftlieir pupils and 
see that they march in in an orderly manner. They must attend iSabbatl' 
school exercises in both class-room and chapel. 

III. Whenever any teacher shall be temporarily absent from school 
because of sickness or accident, it shall be the duty of said teacher to 
send a statement to the Principal, to be by him transmitted to the 
Superintendent, giving the reason and probable time of such absence. 
In case permission be given by the Superintendent to teachers to absent 
themselves said teachers siiall report such fact to the Principal before 
leaving. 

IV. All teachers shall devote themselves exclusively to the duties of 
their classes during school hours, and shall use every available means 
for their improvement in the work of instruction and discipline. 

y. They shall confine themselves to the prescribed course of study as 
closely as circumstances will permil. 

VI. They shall make a faithful record upon the daily register of all 
required therein: at the end of the week they shall make an accurate 
weekly report in accordance with instructions on weekly report blanks, 
and present same to the Principal on Monday morning. They shall keep 
such other records and make such other reports as the iSuperintehdent 
may require. All work, except the daily record, must be done outside of 
school hours. 

VII. Teachers shall have charge of such classes as may be assigned 
them by the Superintendent. They shall be subject to his direction, and 
that of the Principal as mentioned above, and shall co-operate with them 
not only during school hours, but before and after. 

VIII. They shall carefully guard against the introduction of questions 
of a sectarian or partisan character in the class-room, or elsewhere so far 
as pupils are concerned. 

IX. They shall be held responsible for the order and discipline of their 
respective rooms (and study halls and chapel, when in charge of same), 
practicing such discipline as would be exercised by a kind, firm and 
judicious ]iarent in his family. 

X. They shall avoid corporal punishment except in the most aggra- 
vated cases. In case such punishment is inflicted, a full and complete 
statement specifying the name and age of the pupil punished, the olfense 
charged and the kind and degree of punishment inflicted, must be made 
out and given to the Principal to be by him presented to the Superin- 
tendent. 

XI. Whenever pupils are detained in the school-room at recess as a 
punishment they shall be allowed to pass out after the recess is closed. 
Pupils should be required to pass out of the school-room at recess unless 
it would occasion an exposure of health: but they shall never be requir- 
ed to remain out when the exposure would be injurious to health. 

XII. It shall be the duty of teachers to give vigilant attention to the 



ventilation and temperature of the scliool-rooms and to make themselves 
familiar with the means by which their respective rooms may be proper- 
ly ventilated. A regular system of ventilatiovi shall be practiced at all 
times by which the air in all their school-rooms shall be effectually 
changed at recess, and at such other times as may be necessary to pre- 
vent the breathing of impure air. Children shall in no case be allowed 
to sit in a draught of air. 

XIII. On no account shall they dismiss their pupils earlier than tlie 
appointed time, nor for any day or part of a day, without permission 
from the Superintendent. If he be absent from the Institution, such 
permission must be obtained of the Principal. 

XIV. They shall, in turn, have charge of the pupils during such 
periods outside of the school-rooms as may from time to time be assigned 
by the Superintendent. The gentlemen shall in regular order conduct 
the morning devotional exercises. 

XV. They shall, at all times, give their support to the officers of the 
Institution, by inculcating in the minds of their respective classes proper 
principles of good order and obedience; and they shall never intimate to 
them matters to the discredit of any officer of the Institution. 

XVI. They shall carefully abstain from all interference with the 
duties of the officers. 

XVII. Teachers shall not be allowed to employ their time outside of 
school hours in any maiurer which will interfere with their efficiency or 
usef Illness as teachers in the Institution. 

XVIII. Attendance upon teachers' meetings will not be made oblig- 
atory, but attendance will naturally indicate interest in their work; non- 
attendance, lack of interest. 

XIX. To obtain school room supples, etc., teachers shall prepare lists 
of what is needed, upon the proper supply blanks, and send same to 
Superintendent, who will have all necessary supplies issued. 

XX. It will be the duty of each teacher to read to the pupils, from 
time to time, such rules as apply to them, that they may have a clear 
understanding of the rules by which they are governed. 

[Here follow rules outlining duties of book and store-keeper; matron; 
house-keeper; pliysicans; librarian; dining-room superior; ushers; super- 
visors; nurse; industrial instructors; overseer of farm and garden; 
engineer; watchman; watchwoman; chief of hre patrol, and carpenter. 
Also miscellaneous rules; rules governing library, and rules governing 
pupils.] 

NOTICE. 

I. All persons whose duties are above specified shall consider these 
rules as only a general outline of their duties, and must expect and be 
willing to perform such other duties as may, from time to time, be re- 
quired of them by the Superintendent. 

II. The plan of all books and papers to be kept, the scope and nature 



63 



of all rules to be established, the plan and nature of all reports to be 
made, the character of all supervision granted and the performance of all 
duties generally, must be by, and with full consent and approval of, the 
Superintendent. 

III. All necessary arrangements for interchange of duties, so as to 
give officers, teachers and employes relief from duty at certain times, 
will be made by the Superintendent. In order to justly accomplish this, 
persons will be called upon at times to perform duties not in the line of 
their employment. 



I 



TennBSSEB DeaF and Dumb EcIiddI, 

LOCATED AT KNOXVILLE., TENN. 
f{lS^T0RICftL_3KeTCH. 



184.^= 18Q3. 



The Tennessee Deaf and Dumb School 



The first legislation looking to the establishment of a 
school for the deaf and dumb children of Tennessee was pro- 
posed and persistently advocated by the late General John 
Cocke, of Grainger county, when a member of the Senator- 
ial branch of the General Assembly of the State ; and the 
friends of deaf mute education in Tennessee have ever held 
General Cocke in grateful remembrance a? the one, above 
all others, to whose benevolent impluses and wise action 
the institution owes its existence. 

On the 2()th of December, 1<S4:'>, General Coeke secured, as- 
iin amendment to a 1)111 then pending for the establish- 
ment of a State school for the blind at Nashville, the in- 
sertion of an appropriation of one thousand dollars for put- 
ting in operation a school for the deaf and dumb at Knox- 
ville 'this bill passed the Senate on December 21, 1843,. 
and was finally passed in the House on January 29, 1844. 

Governor James C. Jones appointed Messrs. R. B. Mc- 
Mullen, Joseph Estabrook and D. R. Mc Anally to constitute 
the first Board of Trustees. These- gentlemen met in the 
counting-room of Cowan & Dickinson, at Knoxville, on July 
27, 1844, and organized by the election of Rev. R. B. Mc- 
Mullen, President, and Rev. D. R. McAnally, Secretary. 

The President was requested to address letters to the 
American Asylum at Hartford, to the New York Institu. 
tion, and to other schools, then in operation asking for in- 
formation to aid the trustees in the proper organization of 
the school, and he was also requested to address a circular 
letter to the people of Tennessee asking for information in: 
regard to the deaf and dumb of school age throughout the 
State. 

After considerable correspondence the Board of Trustees 
secured the services of Rev. Thomas Maclntire, then a 
teacher in the Ohio Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, to 



4 



The Tennessee Deaf and Dumb School. 



take charge of the Tennessee school, as principal and in- 
structor. Mr. Maclntire entered upon his duties April 1st, 
1845, and served the institution faithfully and satisfactorily 
for five years when he resigned and returned to his home in 
Ohio. 

The school was begun in rented premises in what was 
known as the Churchwell House, an old residence, in East 
Knoxville. Upon assuming his duties Mr. Maclntire set to 
work at once to procure needed furniture, &c., and advertis- 
ed the opening of the school on April 14th. Pupils arrived 
slowly, but on the first Monday of June, 1845, Mr. Maclntire 
began the work of instruction with a class of six pnpils. 
The number in attendance soon increased to nine pupils 
with which the first session of the school closed on the first 
Monday of the following September. 

The sum of one thousand dollars realized from the origi- 
nal appropriation was supplemented by private subscrip- 
tions to the amount of about four hundred dollars, so that 
the money available for the expenses of the tirst session uf 
the school was about fourteen hundred dollars. 

The succeeding legislature was urged by the Board of 
Trustees to make an appropriation for buildings but failed 
to do so. In response to the appeal of the Trustees, who had 
with great zeal undertaken the work of establishing (he 
sch ol upon a permanent basis, the people of East Tennes- 
see subscribed about five thousand dollars for the erection 
of a building and the continuance of the school. This money 
was mostly contributed in small sums and was secured by the 
eftbrts of Messrs. W. G. McAdoo and J. M. Davis, agents ap- 
pointed by the Trustees to canvass Knox and adjoining 
counties in the interest of the institution. 

The money thus raised was used mainly in the erection 
of a three-story brick building twenty-five feet wide by 
eighty feet in length, now constituting the east wing of the 
main building according to the original design. Except 
for these special efforts on the part of the Trustees anrl the 
generous response of the public the school would probably 
have been closed indefinitely in 1846, as the building then 
occupied could be retained no longer iind no means were 
available to procure other quarters without securing special 
private contributions. 

On June 8th. 1846, Calvin Morgan, Esq., of Knoxville, 



The Tennpssee Deaf and Dumb ScHooii. 



5 



generously donated to the school two acres of land situated 
immediately west of the limits of the town at that time, but 
now in the heart of the city. 

Six years later, June 25, 1852, the Trustees purchased trona 
the estate of Mr. Morgan, for two thousand dollars, three and a 
half acres of land adjoining the original lot on the north and 
east, and on May 21. 1858, two and a half acres additional 
were purchased on the west for five thousand eight hundred 
dollars making the present premises contain eight acres, the 
total cost of which has been seven thousand eight hundred 
dollars. The grounds of the institution front toward the 
south on Asylum street, being bounded on the north by Vine 
street and lying between Locust street on the east and Broad 
street on the west. The premises are kept in good order, with 
flower gardens, walks, and shaded lawns on the east, south 
and west, with boys' play ground and out-buildings on the 
north. 

The main building is fifty by one hundred feet having 
three stories and an attic. It was erected in 1848, the corner 
stone having been laid with interesting public ceremonies on 
the 13th of May of that year. Among other publications 
lately received from the family of the first principal, Mr. Mac- 
Intire, was a pamphlet, printed by James C. and Joliii L. 
Moses, at the office of the Knoxville Register, giving an ac- 
count of the proceedings at the laying of this corner-stone 
with the address of Rev. Thomas W Humes on that occasion. 
As evidencing the public interest in the school at that time 
it may n t be inappropriate to give here a part of the account 
of the exercises. 

"The corner-stone of the main edifice of the Tennessee Insti- 
tution fi>r the Education of the Deaf and Dumb, at Knoxville. 
was laid on Saturday, May 13th, 1848, by Mt. Libanus Lodge, 
No. 59, of Free Masons." 

A procession was formed in the following order: 
Mt. Libanus Lodge of Free Masons. 
Clergy. 

Trustees of the Deaf and Dumb Institution. 
Teachers. 
Pupils. 

East Tennessee Division of the Sons of Temperance. 
University Division. 



6 



The Tennessee Deaf and Dumb School. 



Trustees of East Tennessee University. 
President and Faculty. 
Students. 
Young Men's Literary Society. 
Mayor and Aldermen of Knoxville. 
Citizens. 

A fervent prayer was offered by Rev. W. E. G. Cunning- 
ham, Chaplain of the Lodge. The ceremonies of laying the 
corner-stone were conducted by B. R. Strong, W. M.; James 
W. Campbell, S. W., and Joseph L. King, J. W. The exer- 
cises closed with the singing of an ode by the Lodge after 
a most appropriate and eloquent address by Rev. Thomas 
W. Humes. 



'i'his main building has a wide cornice with high Corin- 
thian columns, and though not of the present style of 
architecture is (|uite a handsome and imposing structure, it 
being, to many minds, more attractive than the more recent 
additions of modern style. Probably the first considerable 
use, for outside M'ork, of white Tennessee marble, which has 
lately become so famous as a building stone and for monu- 
mental purposes, was in the construction of the marble 
stairs at the front of the main building erected forty-five 
years ago. There was of this marble work about one thou- 
sand cubic feet, and it was thought by some persons at that 
time to be an extravagant expenditure of money, but with 
scarcely any repairs or care the work stands to-day as good 
as when first eonstructed, thus demonstrating the real 
economy of the original large outlay. In 1852 the western 
wing corresponding to the one on the east — twenty-five by 
eighty feet and three stories high was constructed accord- 
ing to the original plan. Later additions have been made 
of a two-story chapel building forty by sixty feet, a two- 
story building for industrial purposes thirty by fifty feet, 
two school-room buildings thirty-five by sixty feet each and 
three stories high, a two story building twenty-five by thir- 
ty feet for laundry purposes, and an eight-room frame house 
for principal's residence. 

The total first cost of buildings and grounds has been 
about one hundred thousand dollars. 

The last building erected one of the school buildings 
mentioned above — was built in 1891, at a cost of ten thou- 



The Tennessee Deaf and Dumb Schooi 



sand dollars. An ajypropriation for such a buildins; had 
been long needed and its necessity recognized by the mem- 
bers of the General Assembly, but, in answer to the appeal 
therefor, they had plead the straitened financial condition 
of the State and had put off the matter from session* to ses- 
sion. 

The Trustees renewed the application to the Forty sev- 
enth General Assembly which convened in Nashville on 
the first Monday in January, 1891, and the matter was put 
in the hands of Hon. W. L. Ledgerwood, Representative 
from Knox county. The growth of the school had made an 
additional building a necessity, but the committees having 
recommended that no special appropriations he made for 
any purpose of the kind and other efforts having been al- 
ready killed in the Legislature, it seemed as though there 
was little hope of securing what at least nine- tenths of the 
members had decided could not be then granted ; but on 
the last day of the session Mr. Ledgerwood left a sick-bed 
and went to the House and, in committee of the whole on 
the appropriation bill, he secured an amendment giving 
the institution ten thousand dollars for this building by an 
earnest and eloquent appeal which entitles Mr. Ledger- 
wood to be held with General Cocke, the author of the leg- 
islation establishing the school, as one of its truest friends 
and chief benefactors. 

Organization and Government. 

The original act of the General Assembly of 1844, under 
which the school was established, was superseded by an act 
passed January 31, 1846, by which it was enacted, "That 
the Institution for the instruction of the Deaf and Dumb 
now in existence and operation in the town of Knoxville be 
and is hereby incorporated under the name and style of 
the Tennessee Deaf and Dumb School under the control and 
management of a Board of Trustees composed of the follow- 
ing six gentlemen : viz., Rev. R. B. McMullen, Rev. D. R. 
McAnally, Joseph Estabrook, Rev. T. Sullins, James H. 
Cowan and Campbell Wallace, and their successors in of- 
fice." The three original trustees were retained by this 
act and three others added. Subsequently the membership 
of the Board of Trustees was increased, the number now be- 



8 



The Tennessee Deaf and Dumb School. 



ing fourteen including the State Superintendent of Public 
Instruction who is ex- officio a member of the Board. 

The charter of the school or act of incorporation of 1846 
was signed in behalf of the Senate, as Speaker by H. M. 
Waterson and by Brookins Campbell as Speaker of the 
House. This charter placed the entire control of the insti- 
tution in the hands of the Board of Trustees who were 
thereby required to report to each General Assembly of the 
State. 

The following gentlemen have served the school as 
Trustees since the organization of the Board in 1844: 

R. B. McMullen, Joseph Estabrook, D. R. McAnally, T. 
Sullins, .James H. Cowan, Campbell Wallace, Thomas W. 
Humes, M. D. Bearden, James Park, Joseph Jackson, Joseph 
H. Walker, James C. Moses, J. D. Gibson, John H. Crozier, 
Daniel McCallum, W. J. Baker, S. B. Boyd, 0 W. Morris, 
Abner G. .lackson, Matthew Hillsman, O. P Temple, R. D. 
Jourohnon, Henry Ault, S. R. Rogers, M. A. Williams, W. 
D. Carnes, John Baxter, W. B. Shapard, Samuel B. Boyd, 
John L. Moses, William K. Eckle, George H. Smith, C. W. 
Jones, Alfred Caldwell. .1. M. Thornburgh, Richard C. Jack- 
son, Joseph Jaques, J. F. Deaderick, L. C. Shepard, John S. 
Van Gilder, John M. Boyd, Samuel T. Atkin, W. W. Wood- 
ruff, Saii.uel B. Ault, R. S. Payne. J. W. Caldwell, John Mc- 
Cov, Prank A. Moses, John M. Allen, H. T. Ault, J. Y. 
Johnston, and State Superintendent of Public Instruction, 
Frank M. Smith. The fourteen last named gentlemen con- 
stitute the present Board of Trustees. 

The State and the School have been fortunate in the 
character, ability and zeal of the men who have constituted 
the Board. They have been, from the beginning of the 
institution, uniformly, representatives of the best element 
of the business and professional men of the community. 
They have served without any compensation whatever and 
without cost to the State in the way of expenses. This ser- 
vice has been rendered cheerfully, and with a fidelity and 
punctuality seldom known in any body of men so constitut- 
ed. The members of this Board have esteemed it a high 
privilege to thus serve humanity and God and they have 
done conscientious, eicient work in behalf of the State and 
the deaf and dumb children of Tennessee. Speaking for 
himself and his associate Trustees, the President of the 



The Tennessee Deaf and Dumb School. 



9 



Board said a few weeks since. "We want the fact of our be- 
ing Trustees of this school engraven upon our tomb-stones.'' 
"We regard a well managed institution of this character a» 
the proudest monument we could have." 

Maintenance. 

The institution has no endowment fund and is supported 
wholly by the State of Tennessee. After the appropriation, 
of one thousand dollars to found the school and maintain it 
the first year, the Legislature appropriated twenty-five 
hundred dollars per annum for the next two years for sup- 
port, and five thousand dollars annually thereafter for sever- 
al years, special appropriation being made from time t > time 
for buildings and improvements. 

The Legislature of 1857 passed an act appropriating two 
hundred dollars annually for each "pauper mute" in the 
State attending the school This law required a certificate 
to the effect that tbe parents of children seeking admission 
as state pupils were paupers, and this humiliating require- 
ment kept many children at home who should have entered 
the school. 

In 1860 this provision was modified so that the Trustees 
could admit children as State, or free, pupils when satisfied 
of the inability of parents to pay for their maintenance at 
school. 

In 1877 all requirements as to payment were stricken out 
of the laws governing the admission of pupils, and the school 
was made free to all deaf children in the State regardless of 
the financial ability of parents, or their poverty. 

This was but a recognition of the principle of common jus- 
tice that all the children of the State were entitled to an. 
education, and ought not to be debarred therefrom by deaf- 
ness or poverty. The change has proven greatly to the ad- 
vantage of the deaf and dumb of the State. It has worked 
well in the management of the school by abolishing the spirit 
of caste which will grow up in any school composed in part 
of pay pupils, and it has added but little to the cost of the in- 
stitution to the State. 

In 1866 the General Assembly passed a law giving to the 
school five thousand dollars annually, in addition to the per 
capita allowance, and the institution was supported under 



10 



The Tennessee Deaf and Dumb School. 



these laws for many years ; but under the present laws in 
Tennessee as to appropriations, specified suras are appro- 
priated biennially for the maintenance of the school upon 
estimates of the Trustees. The estimate for current expenses, 
for the next two years, is twenty-eight thousand five hundred 
dollars per annum. 

Colored Department. 

In October, 1881, a separate school for colored deaf and 
dumb children was begun in East Knoxville in rented premi- 
ses Very near the spot where the school for white children 
had been organized thirty-six years before. 

The department for colored children is under the same gen- 
eral management as the department for white children. 

In 1885, upon application of the Board of Trustees, the Leg- 
islature appropriated five thousand, five hundred dollars to 
purchase grounds and buildings for the colored department 
then offered at that price. These premises were situated two 
miles east of Knoxville and contained twenty-seven acres of 
land, well adapted to the purposes of the school, with com- 
modious and comfortable brick buildings formerly occupied 
as a country home and costing originally largely more than 
the price at which the entire premises were secured. 

An additional outlay of thirty-five hundred dollars has 
provided sufficient accommodations for the present needs of 
.this department in which there are now twenty-six pupils. 

Attendance. 

The total enrollment of both departments of the institu- 
tion for the present session is one hundred and seventy — 
the largest in its history. Since the organization of the 
school, seven hundred and seventy -six pupils have been un- 
der instruction. 

Five sessions were lost on account of the suspension dur- 
ing the civil war. 

There were sixteen sessions previous to the suspension 
with the following attendance by terms : 

9. 10, 15, 22, 22, 26, 21, 31, 44, 64, 59, 60, 70, 58, 57,55. 

Since the reorganization there have been twenty-seven 
sessions with an attendance as follows : 



The Tennesske Deaf and Dumb School. 



11 



39, 58, 74, 78, 102, 115, V'2, 128, 132, 133, 110, 103, 107, 108, 
113, 119, 115, 116, 128, 136, 129, 129, 130, 154, 158, 164, 170. 

The age of admission is eight years and the term of in- 
struction is eight years. The average term of attendance 
has been about five years. 

Methods of Instruction. 

The sign or manual method of instruction in use at Hart- 
ford and in the other American Schools in 1845 was adopted 
by Mr. Maclntire at the beginning of the work in the Ten- 
nessee School, and this system was followed exclusively for 
many years. 

Under the management of Mr. Ijams, semi-mutes and 
others who seemed most capable of receiving such instruc- 
tion were taught orally by the principal and by hearing 
teachers in connection with their manual work. In 1880 a 
regular teacher of articulation was employed, and since that 
time oral work has been systematically pursued, it being 
the purpose to conform, as nearly as practicable, to the ap- 
proved methods of the combined system as defined by the 
Convention of American Instructors of the Deaf. 

At present about one hundred pupils are taught in part 
by the manual method and in part orally, the remainder 
being instructed by the manual method exclusively. 

Industrial Training, 

Early in the history of the school instruction in shoe- 
making and cabinet-making was begun and continued sat- 
isfactorily until the suspension of the school in 1861. 

After the reorganization, printing was substituted for 
cabinet-making and now the trades taught are printing 
and shoe-making. 

A semi-monthly paper, "The Silent Observer," now in its 
seventeenth volume, is issued from the printing oflBce. 

In the shoe-shop the mending of shoes for all the pupils 
is done, indigent children are furnished with shoes, and the 
surplus product is generally sold in exchange for coal. 

Many ex-pupils throughout the State who learned these 
trades in the school are earning comfortable support as 
shoe-makers and printers. 



12 



The Tennessee Deaf and Dumb School. 



Efforts are now being made by the Trustees to secure 
means to enlarge the industrial department and to increase 
the number of trades taught. 



Joseph H. Ijams, the sixth principal of the school, was 
called to take charge of the institution at a critical period 
of its history. He proved to be fully equal to the emer- 
gency ; and to his intelligent and untiring labors is largely 
due the prosperity of the school since its reorganization in 
1866. 

In June, 1861, the sixteenth session of the school was clos- 
ed about two weeks earlier than had been contemplated on 
account of the excitement then existing because of the civil 
war which had begun some two months before. The ques- 
tion of reopening the school in the following fall was held 
in abeyance by the Board of Trustees until August 3, 1861, 
when the school was suspended indefinitely and the services 
of all teachers and officers dispensed with. 

From this time until September, 1865, the premises were 
in the hands of the contending armies. They were first oc- 
cupied by the Confederate soldiers for about two years, and 
then by the Federal army for about the same length of 
time. The buildings were used for hospital purposes and 
the grounds as a camp. All books, papers, furniture, &c., 
were appropriated or destroyed, and only such things re- 
mained as were too heav}^ to be carried away and so strong 
as not to be easily broken, and these were in a terrible state 
of dilapidation and filth. 

Of a fine forest only four oaks, a hickory, and a cherry 
were left standing. General Burnsides' northern line of 
the fortifications of the city had extended through the 
grounds from Locust street to Broad street, and the entire 
premises affln-ded a striking object lesson of the desolations 
of war. 

In May, 1866, the work oi' restoring the buildings and 
grounds was begun by the Trustees and steps taken by them 
looking to the reorganization of the school. This work was 
pursued diligently during the summer of 1866, and in Octo 
her of that year Mr. Ijams w^as called to the principalship 
of the institution. He accepted the position and the fol- 
lowing month entered with enthusiasm upon the arduous 



The Tennessee Deaf and Dumb School. 



13 



task reorganizing and rebuilding the institution. His 
success was marked and rapid. The school was reopened 
December 3, 1866. Thirty-nine pupils were enrolled the 
first session with an increased attendance each succeeding 
term for ten years, more than one hundred pupils being re- 
ceived the fifth session. After sixteen years of most faith- 
ful and honored service Mr. Ijams died, on December 24th, 
1882, universally loved and lamented. The present princi- 
pal, Thomas L. Moses^ who had taught in the school under 
Mr. Ijams for ten years preceding 1880, when he had retir- 
ed to engage in business, was called to take charge of the 
school January 1st, 1883. He accepted the position and has 
served the institution as principal since that time. 

Soon after the opening of the school in 1845, Mr. Macln- 
tire found the services of a school-room assistant necessary, 
and Mr. Charles W. Myers, of Ohio, an educated deaf-mute, 
was chosen to be the first assistant teacher of the institution. 

Mr. Myers proved to be a most acceptable and successful 
teacher, but his labors were soon ended. He passed away 
November 10th, 1849, greatly regretted and kindly remem- 
bered by all connected with the school, and his remains 
now rest in the institution burial plat, in Gray Cemetery 
this city 

OflBcers of th© Institution. 

The adminstrative officers of the school are — Principjil 
teachers, physician, matrons, steward and house-keepers. 

Oflacers of the Board. 

The officers of the Board of Trustees are — President, trea- 
surer, secretary and executive committee The executive 
power of the Board is vested in this committee of three 
members who exercise general supervision as to the carry- 
ing out of the rules of the Board and audit monthly all ac- 
counts. The executive committee was organized January 
8th, 1869, superceding all other committees of the Board. 

The following is a list of those who have been officially 
connected with the institution; 



34 



The Tennessee Deaf anp Dumb Schoot* 



PRESIDENTS f)F THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES. 

R, B. McMuMen, W. D, Games, John H. Crozier, James C. 
Moses^ John L. Moses, John M. Boyd. 

TREASURERS. 

D. R. McAnally, James H. Cowan, Joseph H. Walker, 
Heury Ault, Abner G. Jackson, Samuel B. Boyd, John S. 
Van Gilder. 

SECRETARIES. 

jy. K. McAnally, J. P. N. Craighead. James Park, R. D. 
Jou' olmon, Joseph H, Ijams, Thomas L. Moses. 

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 

John S. Van Gilder. Samuel B, Boyd, William K. Eckle, 
Samuel B. Ault, John McCoy. 

PRINCIPALS OF THE SCHOOL. 

Thomas Maclntire, 1845-1850 ; O. W. Morris, 1851-1853 ; 
H. S. Gillet, 1853-1856; A. G. Sc(;tt, 1856-1859; James Park, 
1859-1861. 

Joseph H. Ijams, 1866-1882; Thomas L. Moses, 1883-1893. 
TEACHERS. 

C. W. Myers, Charles Brown, G. E. Branson, H. S. Gillet, 
A. G, Scott, H. A. Goodrick, Laura S. Richardson, C. H. Bliss, 
James Fisher, D. C. Hommel, W. B. Sanders, J. A. Russell, 
L. Brasher, Georgiana Sanford, Margaret Bickford, Eliza 
Ijams, T. J. Barrier, W. 0. Branum, James A. Lyons, Thom- 
as L. Moses, Louis A. Houghton, William F. Pope, Jesse B. 
Pope, Bettie Davis, Kate R. Ogden (oral teacher), Lizzie 
Hill, Mary E. Branner, Mary H. Ijams, Helen A. Ferguson 
(oral teacher), Iva M. Boyd, Rilla L. Parker (oral teacher), 
Matt. R. Mann (teacher colored department). 

PHYSICIANS. 

Washington H. Lyon, W. J. Baker, J. P. Garvin, Frank A. 
Ramsey, C. W. Crozier, R. O. Currey, John M. Boyd. 



The Tennessee Deaf and Dumb Schooi,, 



15 



MATRONS 

M. E. Maclntire, Julia A, Comstock, S. Morris, A. J.. 
Brooks, M. J. Corley, Anna Joaes, E L. Henderson, Bettie 
Davis, Sallie L. Jackson, Rhoda H. Mason (matron colored 
department)- 

STEWARDS. 

J. P. N. Craighead, J. W. Gaut, G. Morehomse, E. C, Jones^ 
Calvin A. Gurley. 

HOUSE-KEEPERS. 

P. C. Park, Anna Jones, Lizzie Gurley; Rhoda H. Mason 
(house-keeper colored department). 

Societies. 

On April 6th, 1890, the pupils of the school and the deaf- 
mutes living in Knoxville and vicinity, with some of the 
teachers and officers of the institution, organized a society 
which they called The Tennessee Deaf-Mute Helpers. The 
primary object of the organization was to raise money to aid 
Mrs. Mills in the establishment of schools for the dsaf in 
China, and it has been maintained for the purpose of extend- 
ing help wherever a field for such work should be presented. 
The practical application of the missionary idea was to many 
of the members of the society anew revelation. The think- 
ing on the things of others, of the blessings which they 
themselves enjoy and of which thousand of others know 
nothing, seems to have given a new pleaasure and to have 
made them realize in its fullness the truth, "It is more bless- 
ed to give than to receive." 

In some of the voluntary contributions and work of the 
members of the society, have been manifested some touching 
and beautiful instances of loving self-sacrifice. The effect of 
this society upon pupils and others nas been most salutary, be- 
ing helpful to the members of the society and to the institu- 
tion as well. 

The society holds monthly meetings in the chapel of the in- 
stitution on the second Sabbath of each month, when a lecture 
is given and a collection taken. 

In connection with this society, a sewing-circle has been or- 



The Tennessek Deaf and Dumb School, 



ganized called The Samuel Boyd Workers, in memory af an 
honored member of the Board of Trustees for thirty years and 
a life-long friend of the deaf. 

This auxiliary society meets every Tuesday. Many articles 
of fancy work have been made and sold by the members for 
the benefit of the society. Two fairs have been held yielding 
more than one hundred dollars each. Mrs. Mamie Hahn is 
the president of this organization and the instructor in needle- 
work, and to her is chiefly due the credit of its success. 

OFFICERS OF TENNESSEE DEAF-MUTE HELPERS. 

President — VV. O. Branum. 
Vice-President — M. R. Manu. 
Secretary — D. C. Watson. 
Treasurer — C. F. Jackson. 

OFFICERS OF THE SAMUEL BOYD WORKERS. 

President — Mrs. Mamie Hahn. 
Vice President — Mrs. Fannie Mann. 
Treasurer — Mrs. Lizzie Gurley. 
Secretary — Mrs. Hattie Houghton. 

LITERARY AND SOCIAL SOCIETY. 

The deaf-muies in the vicinity of the school, with the older 
pupils, have organized a society for mutual improvement and 
social intercourse. This organization meets the first Satur- 
day night of each month and has debates and addresses. The 
officers are : 

President — D. C. Watson. 
Vice President — J. W. Kennedy. 
Secretary — Matt. R. Mann. 
Treasurer — W. O. Branum. 



e North Carolina Institution for 
the Deaf and Dumb and 
the Blind. 

RALEIGH, NORTH CAROLINA, 
1845-1893. 



By E. McK. GOODWIN, 

Advisory Suferinteiulent of the North Carolitia School. 



NORTH CAROLINA INSTITUTION FOR THE DEAF 
AND DUMB AND THE BLIND. 



In 1843 the question of establishing a school for educating 
the deaf and dumb was agitated. Mr. W. D. Cooke, of Virginia, 
came to the State the same year and went into several counties 
giving exhibitions of the manner of teaching the deaf and dumb. 

Governor Morehead urged the establishment by the State 
of such an institution. On January 12, 1845, a bill entitled 
" An act to provide for the education and maintenance of poor 
and indigent deaf-mutes and blind persons in the State " was 
passed. The sum of $5,000 annually was appropriated. 

The act placed this fund under the supervision of the 
" president and directors of the library board." The board 
was composed of His Excellency Governor Graham, ex officio, 
president of the board, and Weston R. Gales, David Stone, 
Charles Manly, and R. S. Myers. 

The board secured a building on Hillsboro street, and the 
school was organized by the appointment of Wm. D. Cooke, 
A. M., principal. On the first day of May, 1845, the school 
opened with seven pupils, and during the session seventeen 
entered. 




NORTH CAEOLINA INSTITUTION FOR THE DEAF AND DUMB AND THE BLIND. 

At the session of the general assembly of North Carolina in 
1847 an act was passed to provide for the erection of a suit- 
able building for the comfortable accommodations of deaf- 
mutes and blind persons in the State. The act appropriated 
only $5,000, but provided that the surplus oat of the annual 
appropriations, amounting to ten thousand ($10,000), be placed 
in the hands of the board. 



4 



The North Carolina Institution. 



On the 14th day of April, 1849, the corner-stone of the main 
building, on Cos well square, was laid by the Grand Lodge of 
Masons, under the direction of William F. Collins, M. W. G. 
M., after which an address was made by Rev. Samuel S. 
Bryan, of New Berne, N. C. 

In 1851 Mr. John Kelly, of Orange county, N. C, be- 
queathed the sum of six thousand dollars to aid in the educa- 
tion of indigent deaf-mutes. The will provided that only the 
interest accruing on this fund should be used. 

Mr. Cooke continued principal till 1860, at which time he 
was succeeded by W. J. Palmer, who remained till 1869, when 
he went to Belleville, Canada, to assume the superintendency 
of the Institution for the Deaf and Dumb. The school was 
kept open during the entire time of the Civil War, although 
the means for maintenance were very limited. Mr. John 
Nichols, who had no professional experience with the educa- 
tion of the deaf, succeeded Mr. Palmer as principal. In 1871 
Mr. Nichols was succeeded by Mr. S. F. Tomlinson. He had 
no knowledge or experience in such work. But Mr. Tomlin- 
son remained only about two years, being succeeded in 1873 
by Mr. Nichols, whom he had so recently succeeded. These 
changes were made on political grounds. About this time the 
Governor appointed a board, among whom was one negro who 
could not sign his own name. Under such management were 
our unfortunate children placed for their physical, mental, 
moral, and spiritual instruction. 

It will be remembered that formerly our Institution owned 
and operated a well-equipped printing-office and bookbindery. 
At one time the Institution did the printing for the State 
printer. The American Annals for the Deaf was printed in 
this office, and the Institution published a paper, " The Deaf - 
Mute Casket.'" The office had costly appliances for printing- 
raised type, and printed several works for the blind. But 
during the administration of politicians the printing appliances 
were sold and the building torn down. A costly press was 
sold to a foundry as " old iron." The same press was after- 
wards purchased from the foundry and is now in use in one of 
the leading printing houses of the city. It appears that the 
board thought it unjust for the deaf to compete against the 
printing houses and thereby take some of the public patronage 
of the State printer. 

In 1877 Mr. H. A. Gudger was elected principal, he having 



The North Carolina Institution. 



5 



had no professional experience in the education of the deaf. 
But he devoted his energy and attention to the work and be- 
came conversant with the sign-language and methods of 
instruction. It was during Mr. Gudger's administration that 
the articulation department was introduced. Notwithstanding- 
all these changes that the Institution underwent and the inex- 
perience of the chief officers, it continued to grow in numbers. 

Mr. Gudger remained as superintendent till January, 1883, 
when he resigned and was succeeded by Mr. W. J. Young, 
who had been principal teacher in the blind department for 
more than twenty years. When Mr. Gudger resigned there 
were 193 pupils on his roll, and the number has steadily in- 
creased, till now our last report shows 299. 




W. J. YOUNG, M. A. 



The North Carolina Institution has furnished to the profes- 
sion some prominent teachers who have been honored in other 
States. Mr. W. J. Palmer was called to the responsible posi- 
tion of principal of the Ontario Institution at Belleville, Can- 
ada, and Mr. Coleman also went to the same Institution as 
teacher, where he still remains in the profession. Mr. Grow, 
the Maryland school, first " taught the young idea how to 



6 



IVie No7't/i Garoli7\a Institution. 



shoot"' in North Carolina. Mr. D. C. Dudley spent his youth 
and young manhood in the North Carolina Institution, from 
whence he went to the Kentucky Institution, and afterward 
filled so acceptably the superintendency of the Colorado 
School for the Deaf and the Blind. Mr. Hill, suiierintendent 
of the West Virginia Institution, gained his first experience in 
North Carolina. Mr. John E. Ray, the efficient and progres- 
sive superintendent of the Colorado Institution, spent ten 
years teaching the deaf in his native State. It might not be 
out of place for North Carolina also to claim Mr. J. A. 
Tillinghast, now in the Colorado Institution. 

The colored department has furnished teachers to the South 
Carolina, Georgia, and Texas Institutions. 

In 1868 the general assembly made provisions for the edu- 
cation of the colored deaf and dumb and blind children of the 
State. North Carolina was the first State to provide an insti- 
tution for the colored race. The colored department opened 
on the 4th of January, 1869, with 26 pupils. Mr. John J. 
Turner was in charge of this department for one session, when 
Mr. Z. W. Haynes was elected. He taught in this department 
for twenty years, and was removed to the white department 
in 1890. 

The Institution for the Colored is a commodious, well ar- 
ranged building, more suitable for its purpose than the build- 
ings for the white department. The colored department is 
under the same general management as the white department, 
and enjoys the same care and privileges. This department 
has been under the immediate charge of W. F. Debnam since 
1874. 

Board of Trustees, January 1, 1893. 

Major R. S. Tucker, President. 
Mr. James A. Briggs, Mr. B. F. Park, 

Mr. B. F. Montague, Capt. C. D. Heartt, 

Mr. J. RuFFiN Williams, Col. L. D. Stephenson. 

Officers and Teachers. 

Mr. W. J. Young, ..... Superintendent. 

Mr. J. G. B. Grimes, Steward. 

Mrs. C. M. CosTNER, Housekeeper. 

Miss Etta Sykes, .... Matron for the Deaf. 
Mrs. Lottie Harbison, .... For the Blind. 



The North Carolina Institviion. 



7 



Teachers for the Deaf. 

Mr. David E. Tillinghast, . From 1868 to the present. 

Mr. Thos. H. Tillinghast, . " 1874 " 

Mrs. Laura A. Winston, . . 1889 " " 

Mr. Z. W. Haynes, in White Dept., " 1890 " 

Mr. E. McK. Goodwin, . " 1888 " 

Miss Effie Johnston, . . ■' 1892 " " 

Mr. John C. Miller, . . " 1890 " 

Mr. W. F. Debnam, . In charge of Colored Dept. since 1874. 



Teachers in the 

Mr. I. C. Blair, 
Miss Maggie Brumley, 
Miss Mary Shenck, 
Mr. John A. Simpson, 
Mr. Jonas M. Costnee, 
Mr. Walter R. Reaves, . 



Blind Departmen t. 

Miss Laura Cosby, 
Miss Fannie Floyd, 
Mrs. John A. Simpson. 

Musical Director. 
Colored Department. 



Industrial Department. 

Mr. Jas. p. Wedden, . . . Foreman Shoe Shop. 
Mr. James Anderson, . Foreman Broom and Mattress Shop. 

An act of the general assembly of North Carolina creating- 
and establishing the new North Carolina School for the Deaf and 
Dumb was passed and ratified March 7, 1891. 

The School is located at Morganton, in Burke County. This 
location is just east of the Blue Ridge, and is surrounded on 
three sides by the mountains, and commands good views of 
South Mountains, Table Rock, and Grandfather Mountains. 

The first brick in the building was laid by two deaf children, 
Maggie LeGrand and Robert Miller, May 16, 1892. 

The building, designed by A. G. Bauer, architect, is a brick 
structure, three stories high (above basement), and is two 
hundred and fifty-six feet long, contains one hundred and fifty 
rooms, and will accommodate three hundred children. 

The building is modelled after the " Advanced " building of 
the Pennsylvania Institution. It will be furnished with 
modern appliances and equipments. 

The Institution for the Deaf and Dumb and the Blind at 
Raleigh has had very limited facilities for educating the deaf, 
caring for less than one hundred white mutes, with perhaps 
four hundred growing up in ignorance in the State. 



8 



The North Carolina Institution. 



In addition to the I'egular school course, there will be taught 
several industrial trades and arts — printing, tailoring, car- 
pentry, free-hand and industrial drawing, shoemaking, broom 
and mattress making, and practical farming, gardening, and 
dairying. The School owns and will operate a farm of two 
hundred and thirteen acres. A very large per centum of our 
children are the sons and daughters of farmers, and our facili- 




NORTH CAROLINA SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF AND DUMB, MORGANTON, N . C. 



ties to train the boys in the practical part of agriculture will 
be very good, and we can thus prepare them for their life-work. 

The following gentlemen were appointed a board of di- 
rectors : 



Hon. M. L. Reed, 
Hon. R. A. Grier, 
Hon. J. J. Long, 
Hon. B. F. Aycock, 
Col. S. McD. Tate, 
Prof. M. H. Holt, 
Mr. N. B. Beoughton, 



Baltimore. 
Charlotte. 

Eoka. 
Fremont. 
Morganton . 
Oak Ridge. 
Raleigh. 



The North Carolina Institution. 



9 



The board of directors met in Morganton and organized 
April 22, 1891. At this meeting E. McK. Goodwin, of the 
Institution for the Deaf and the Blind at Raleigh, was elected 
advisory superintendent, and Mr. Jno. A. Dickson was elected 
secretary and treasurer. Mr. Dickson resigned, and at a 
subsequent meeting Capt. Geo. L. Phifer was elected to fill 




E.. MCK. GOODWIN. 



the vacancy. Col. S. McD. Tate having been appointed State 
treasurer, Dr. P. L. Murphy was appointed a director. 

At the recent session of the general assembly a stringent 
law was passed requiring professional experience in the train- 
ing and management of deaf-mutes for eligibility to the su- 
perintendency of the School. 

It is hoped that the building wiU be completed by the first 
of November, 1893. 



Illinois Institution for the Education ofthe deaf and Dumb. 

I 



HISTORY 

OF THE 

ILLINOIS INSTITUTION 

FOR THE 

EDUCATION OF THE DEAF AND DUMB 



JACKSONVILLE, ILL. 



SPRINGFIELD, ILL.: 
H. W. RoKKEE, State Printeb and Bindeb. 
1892. 



3 



HISTORY 

OF THE 

ILLINOIS INSTITUTION FOR THE EDUCATION OF THE 
DEAF AND DUMB. 



During- the year 1838 Hon. Orville H. Browning', a resident 
of Quincy, 111., while makinp; a journey by steamboat on the 
Mississippi river, met an educated deaf mute gentleman who in- 
terested him very much not only in himself but in the subject 
of deaf mute education. Mr. Browning, a man of legal talent, 
was abreast of the times in all public educational and humane 
enterprises. Indeed he was rather ahead of his times in such 
■causes. The interest once aroused in his mind on this subject 
■did not abate. He at once entered into correspondence with 
Eev. J. A. Jacobs, Principal of the Kentucky Institution for the 
Education of the Deaf and Dumb, asking his advice as to the 
best method of procedure to establish an institution in Illinois. 
Mr. Browning, being a man whom his fellow citizens delighted 
to honor (he was often in the public service in various capaci. 
ties as Congressman, U. S. Senator and member of President 
Lincoln's Cabinet), was a member of the Senate of the State of 
Illinois at the session of the General Assembly which convened 
at the capital (Vandalia) in December, 1838. He prepared and 
presented at that session a bill which became the charter of 
what is now known as the Ilhnois Institution for the Education 
of the Deaf and Dumb, though it was at first styled an asylum, 
as was common in those days. Mr. Browning's bill very clearly 
shows that he had the correct estimate of the character of such 
an institution as purelj^ educational; and that the deaf mute 
irom being an infant in law might, by educational instrument- 
alities, be advanced to the position of honorable and responsi- 



4 



ble manhood. That one having this just and proper concep- 
tion should consent to style the proposed corporation an asylum 
seems strange. But this ma.v be in a measure explained by the 
consideration that in practical affairs it is often necessary to 
defer to the unintelligent views that prevail in society. There 
has alvva^^s been and still remains a disposition to regard in- 
stitutions for the deaf as asylums. We can understand why 
this should be so in case of the earliest institutions for them, 
as previously they were held as little better than human brutes 
on whom the contempt and jeers of coarse minds were too fre- 
quently visited, or as infants incapable of rational acts, so that 
they did, indeed, require an asylum for their better protection, 
and to withhold them from the perpetration of unreasonable 
conduct that their ignorance often impelled them to. An un- 
educated adult deaf mute is at once a pitiable and a dangerous 
character. Absolute solitude is one of the most dreadful condi- 
tions to which one can be subjected. A poet has sung 

Oh solitude, where are the charms 
That sages have seen in thy face? 
Better dwell in the midst of alarms 
Thau reign in this horrible place. 

Alexander Selkirk on the island of Juan Fernandez was scarcely 
more solitary than is an uneducated deaf person. The conse- 
quence is that his ceaseless, unintelligent introspection with the 
many taunts he receives, in time brings him to the verge of 
lunacy, ferocity or brutishness. As children they are as lovely 
and interesting as any others, but as adults they have only the 
infant mind, with manly passions and brute strength. Were 
there no schools for their education, the asylum for their pro- 
tection and restraint would, indeed, be of the first importance. 
This was always obvious even to the careless thinker. Hence 
it is easy to perceive that when the first movements were pro- 
posed for their amelioration, the asylum idea should be first 
and uppermost in the public mind. Though scarcely more than 
twenty years had elapsed since the first efforts to instruct the 
deaf and dumb had been made in America, yet Mr. Browning in 
his bill showed a conception of the nature of the work to be 
done quite in advance of the popular idea. Section third of his 
bill says: "The object of said corporation shall be to promote 



5 



by all proper and possible means, the intellectual, moral and 
physical culture of that unfortunate portion of the community, 
who, by the mysterious dispensation of Providence, have been 
born, or by disease become deaf, and, of course, dumb ; and by 
a judicious and well adopted course of education, to reclaim 
them from their lonely and cheerless condition, restore them to 
the rank of their species, and fit them for the discharge of the 
social and domestic duties of life." 

Mr. Browning's bill passed the Senate without a dissenting 
vote, and passed the House of Representatives by a large ma- 
jorit.y and was approved by Governor Thos. Carlin, February 
23, 1S39. For the support of the institution the bill appropri- 
ated one quarter per cent, of the interest upon the whole amount 
of the school, college and seminary fund ; thus most intimately 
connecting the new institution with the school system of the 
State, since its maintenance came from the same funds from 
which the public schools derived theirs. The theory was that 
the deaf mute children of the State had as good a right to a 
portion of school funds as those who were more favored. Cer- 
tainly a most enlightened view. 

In securing the passage of this bill Judge Browning was 
promptly assisted by the Senators and Representatives from 
Morgan county, among whom were Hon. William Thomas, Hon. 
Newton Cloud, and Gen. John J. Hardin. Gen. Hardin died on 
the battle-field of Buena Vista. Messrs. Thomas and Cloud were 
fast friends of the institution till far advanced in life. Never has 
a nobler type of honesty and magnanimity been in public life 
than Rev. Newton Cloud. When very far advanced in life as a 
member of the House of Representatives, a patriarch among the 
younger members, who delighted to honor him, he still gave to 
the institution his best service, and to his dying day delighted 
to visit it and rejoice in its growth and success. 

The first Board of Directors of the institution named in the 
act of incorporation comprises a galaxy of brilliant names in 
the history of Illinois. Thomas Carlin. Thomas Cole, Joseph 
Duncan, each at different times governors of the State; Samuel 
D. Lockwood, Samuel H. Treat, Cyrus Walker, eminent jurists 
and judges of the Supreme Court; William Thomas, repeatedly 
a member of the I.egislature, and many years a member 
of the Board; Julian M. Sturtevant, President of Illinois 



6 



College, and one of the foremost educators of the State ;: 
Otway Wilkinson, Dennis Rockwell, George M. Chambers, and 
Matthew Stacy, men who to the close of life enjoyed the high- 
est confidence of their fellow citizens. In this connection there 
is but one cause of regret, which is that the name of Hon. Or- 
ville H. Browning does not appear. No name might more fit- 
tingly have appeared. But the act was draw-n by Judge Brown- 
ing, and the modesty that accompanies merit caused him, while 
naming others to omit himself. Strange that some one did not 
move to insert his name in the bill; but though never actively 
and officially connected with the institution, he never ceased to 
entertain for it the liveliest interest as was manifested by his 
sending to it valuable public documents while he remained in 
public life, and by his earnest inquiries concerning its work until 
his eai'thly career terminated. Judge Browning's complete dis- 
interestedness in the subject is manifested by his naming an- 
other place for the location of the institution than the city of 
his own residence. The best and most convenient location was 
the one he desired, and as Jacksonville seemed in those days 
(preceding railroads) to combine most advantages, he named 
that city in the act, only stipulating that the citizens should 
provide a site comprising not of less than five acres of land. The 
omission of his name is the more to be regretted since we may 
hope that had he been one of the Board of Directors seven 
years would not have elapsed before the school would have 
been opened for pupils as vvas the case. 

On the 29th of June, 1839, a majority of the directors named 
in the Act of Incorporation met in Jacksonville and proceeded 
to organize, (len. Joseph Duncan was elected President, Samuel' 
D. Lockwood, Vice President, Otway Wilkinson, Treasurer, and 
Geora:e M. Chambers, Secretary. Gen. Duncan was a most suit- 
able man to be placed at the head of any educational enter- 
prise, having, in addition to his experience in Congress and as 
a general in the Black Hawk war, had the honor of being the 
author of the first school law of the State of Illinois. He was 
a man of large views, of noble impulses and public spirit. Gen. 
Duncan continued President of the Board until his demise, when 
he was succeeded by Col. James Dunlap, July 1. 1845. Col. 
Dunlap had been elected a member of the Board February 16^ 
1842, vice Thomas Carlin, resigned. He had, at the incipiency 



7 



of the enterprise, shown a deep interest in the institution, hav- 
ing made the largest subscription toward the purchase of land 
required by the A_ct of Incorporation. He was continued in the 
Presidency of the Board as long as he remained a member of 
it. His interest in the institution continued to the close of bi» 
life. One of the last acts of his life was on his death-bed, to send 
for the superintendent of the institution and talk with him upoui 
matters connected with the institution. Col. Dunlap was a man, 
who devised liberal things and undertook large enterprises. 
There have been but few, if any, more public spirited citizens in 
Illinois than Col. James Dunlap. 

With such men as have been named in the Board of Directors 
it seeni> strange to us at this distance of time that two years 
and a half elapsed before a site had been secured for the insti- 
tution, and that seven years should pass before any deaf-mutes 
had been admitted to its halls, or any instruction given them, 
and then to only four pupils. But it is due to the good men 
of those times to remember that the grand scheme of internal 
improvements which had been inaugurated in 1835 had col- 
lapsed, leaving the state overwhelmed with debt, its bonds and 
state warrants far below par, and hard times prevailing with a 
severity of which the active generation of to-day have no knowl- 
edge. The first and uppermost thought of the citizen then was- 
to extinguish the debt of the state, and of the people to secure- 
their homes. It is also true that a great system of State In- 
stitutions, such as now form so important a part of every State 
government, was then unknown. 

This was the first institution established by the State for the 
alleviation of misfortune, and upon it fell the task of arousing 
the public mind to the practicabilit}^ and importance of public 
beneficience, and of the extent of the demand for it, as well as 
the unavoidable outlay necessary in its prosecution. Institu- 
tions for the education of the deaf and dumb have this distinc- 
tion in almost all States of the union. The American Asylum 
(for the education of the deaf and dumb) at Hartford, Connecti- 
cut, opened in 1817, was the precursor of all those great insti- 
tutions for the Deaf and Dumb, the Blind, the Insane and the 
Feeble-Minded, that form so large a department of the govern- 
ment of all the States of the Union, for whose support, in some 
States, more than half of the public expenditure is made. 



8 



In view of these tacts it is not at all strange that, in the third ] 
decade of this century, and only twenty years after the first in- 
-stitution had been established in the old and well peopled east, 
that a new and youiio- State should proceed in a manner that i 
now seems to us, in the light of seventy years' experience, quite j 
slow. But, though the progress of the first few years was slow, 
it was determined. That such a humane work should be com- 
menced immediately on its suggestion, though at a time of most 
distressing financial depression, is greatly to the credit of the 
men of those days. It seems to one reviewing it like a turning 
away from the wild speculation of a few years before, when, as 
a. historian of the State says, "the fever of speculation rapidly 
advanced in intensity until the fever developed into mania, 
reason was dethroned, and the folly of inflation held high car- 
nival," to the more honorable work of caring for those who 
could not care for themselves, in practical obedience to the Di- 
vine command, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." Obe- 
dience to the Divine command was speedily followed with the 
blessing of Providence, and the State of Illinois at once entered 
upon a career of prosperity, slow indeed at first, but unremit- 
ting in growth and increasing in rapidity that is the marvel of 
the world. "Them that honor me I will honor" has been shown 
to apply to the State as well as to individuals. The State can 
in no more forceful manner acknowledge the Creator than by 
beneficence to the n:iedy and helpless. 

There are two beneficent results accruing from the instruction 
of the deaf and dumb by the body politic. First, to its subjects 
who are elevated to a plane of enlightment in which they can 
enjoy the noblest pleasures of famih^ ties and social life, and 
secondly, to the State which thus secures for itself intelligent, 
self-reliant citizens instead of ignorant dependents who, otherwise 
for the term of their natural lives, would be an incubus upon 
society in some form. It costs less to educate the deaf child, 
maintaining him for a few years, than to care for and support 
him for several decades as a man but little elevated above a 
brute. The sum of money expended by the people of Illinois in 
the support of its Institution for the Deaf and Dumb is large in 
the aggregate and is easily computed, but what the expenditures 
by society for its beneficiaries would otherwise have amounted 



9 



to, being made in innumerable driblets, no one can compute with 
certainty, but certain it is that the sum of all these would far 
exceed the former. 

Let it not be supposed that between the incorporation of the 
institution in February, 1839, and its opening in February, 1846, 
that the Board of Directors had been unmindful of their trust. 
There were frequent meetings of the Board and its Prudential 
Committee during those years. A buildiiig, then deemed ample 
for many generations, was erected and paid for. To effect this 
result in times of financial depression, so severe that Auditor's 
warrants were sold as low as thirty cents on the dollar, was a 
matter of such difficulty as "the present generation knows noth- 
ing of, when the State Treasury contains a surplus, the State 
debt is all paid, and holders of its bonds refuse to present them 
for payment. The building erected was eighty-six feet long, fifty 
feet wide, three stories and an attic high. The writer has been 
told that by some it was then regarded as far beyond all the 
requirements of the next hundred years, and sometimes deris- 
ively styled the State's folly, so little was the demand for such 
an institution understood. Not a vestige of that building re- 
mained after thirty years. Could the men of that day, with 
prophet's ken, have looked down the vista of only forty years 
upon the great and beautiful structures that now succeed theirs, 
it would have seemed to them that they were viewing the base- 
less fabrics of a dream. But in their day they planned and la- 
bored as hard as we have since, and practiced far more self- 
denial than has fallen to our lot. During the summer of 1845 
eight rooms of the building were finished. With these the Board 
of Directors felt that they would be able to open the school. 
They were now brought to the most serious and important duty 
that could come to them. In all that had thus far devolved 
upon them in their respective spheres of life the members of the 
Board were as wise and as sagacious as any body of a similar 
number that could be gathered in Illinois or any other State. 
They were, as already seen, men eminent at the forum, in the 
halls of legislation, in agricultion, the pulpit and the arenas of 
trade. They were fully cognizant of the necessity of the greatest 
prudence in the selection of a principal whose success or fail- 
ure in the conduct of the institution would make effective or 



10 



paralized all they had thus far done, thus brin^inp,- credit or mor- 
tification to them. There is probably no position in society in 
which a man more surely requires technical skill, based upon 
years of actual experience, than does the position of superintend- 
ent or principal of an institution for the education of the deaf 
and dumb. The gentleman who first, in America, undertook this 
peculiar work, prepared himself by long previous study, investi- 
gation and work in institutions of foreign lands, and then, not 
until he succeeded in inducing a man of still longer experience in 
a European institution to assist him in his new work, did he ac- 
tively enter upon it. The first instructors of the deaf and dumb 
in America were all college bred men' of the most brilliant attain- 
ments, and of ability that would, and did in some cases, achieve 
success and distinction in the most exalted walks of life; some 
in college faculties, some in divinity, son^.e in law, and some in 
authorship. No profession — for the instruction of the deaf is as 
truly a profession as law, medicine, theology or art — was ever 
inaugurated by a better class of men or style of mind than was 
this. Its prestine dignity it has maintained as well as any other 
profession. That some individuals have been improperly ad- 
mitted to it is not to be denied. Still more regretful is the fact 
that there have been foisted upon it some incompetent and un- 
suitable persons as a reward of party service. But this has not, 
in any case, been by the influence of members of the profession, 
but in spite of them. Eepeatedly has the high-toned and expert 
instructor felt the tinge of shame and indignation when he has 
seen his loved and honorable profession made a shuttle-cock to 
be bandied back and forth by party heelers as though it was 
legitimate party spoils. If the "boodler" could be of some ser- 
vice the case would not be so shameful, but he not only can do 
nothing in his new syjhere, but he is actually an obstacle who 
can only strut around, hold down an ofiice chair and draw a 
salary he has not earned. To direct the benefactions of a gen- 
erous people, appropriated by them for a noble purpose to such 
use, lacks but little, if any, of the essential spirit of knavery and 
robbery, even though it is done under the forms of law. It is 
impossible to conceive of anything more absurd than to place 
in charge of a company of youth, to direct their morals, man- 
ners, instruction, and look after their welfare, one who cannot 
even ask after their ailments in sickness, or give them a word 



11 



of comfort in trouble. This iniquity, it is due to say, has not 
often been practiced anywhere, and never in connection with 
this institution. 

The Board of Trustees have from the first recog'uized and 
acted upon the principle that so sacred a work as superintend- 
ing such an institution should be entrusted only to one who 
was versed in the work of instructino; the deaf, who could com- 
municate with them in their own language since they cannot 
use ours. 

Before the building was ready for occupancy the Board had 
appointed a committee to seek for a thoroughh' competent man 
to take charge of the new institution at its opening. Extensive 
correspondence was opened with institutions in other States 
with the result that Mr. Thomas Officer, who five years preced- 
ing had been engaged as a teacher in the Ohio institution, was 
elected principal. It is quite surprising that the records of the 
Board and the reports of the institution make very little refer- 
ence to Mr. Officer. So far as they are concerned it would only 
appear that he was employed at a meagre salary, and after a 
period of nine years withdrew from the institution. The writer, 
as his successor and from some personal acquaintance, and 
from inquiry of his coadjutors and comrades both in the Ohio 
and in this institution is prepared to say that the Board made a 
most happy and fortunate selection for their first principal. 
Mr. Officer was well posted in his profession to which he was an 
ornament, was a good teacher, a fine executive, with pleasant, 
genial bearing, eminently beconiinsj,- the Christian gentleman. 
He had an urbane and winning manner that ingratiated him 
instantly with all well disposed persons and soon fixed him in 
their confidence. While the earlier repoi"ts of the institution 
after his advent make verj' little reference to Mr. Officer, the 
subjects they discuss and the manner of their discussion, is so 
different from those preceding them as to clearly show that they 
are inspired by a mind such as previous reports have not felt 
the influence of. That mind could have been no other than Mr. 
Officer himself, though his name was not attached to them. 
In March, 1849, Mr. Officer was elected secretary of the Board, 
and ia that capacity prepared and signed the last three reports 



12 



of the Board before the time of his departure from the institu- 
tion. This statement will readily explain the fact of so little 
reference to him in the printed reports of the institution. 

Mr. Officer arrived in October, 1845. Necessary arrangements 
for opening' the school were made, such as providing furniture 
and the appointment of a steward, and the first day of Decem- 
ber fixed upon as the date for opening the school, notice of 
which was published in the newspapers throughout the State. 
The day for opening came but no deaf-mutes came with it. Ac- 
cordingly, Mr. Officer started out on a search for them. In the 
course of several weeks twelve were found whose parents prom- 
ised to send them, but at the des'guated time they failed to put 
in an appearance. However, by the last of January, 1846, four 
had reached the institutipn, and in the month of February, 
seven years after the passage of the bill establishing the insti- 
tution, it began its noble work. Accessions to the number of 
pupils were made during the next spring so that during the 
first term there were nine deaf-mutes admitted. This seems to 
us now a small beginning, but other institutions had before this 
been opened with small numbers; the American Asylum with 
but six; the Pennsylvania with seven; the Ohio Institution with 
three, only six more during its entire first year; the Tennessee 
Institution with nine, and the Indiana Institution with six. 
Hence the directors, nothing daunted, sent out on a tour of 
search the superintendent during the summer vacation. His suc- 
cess in securing promises of attendance were so encouraging that 
an additional teacher was employed for the new term which was 
to open on the 17th of September. . During the fall and early 
winter there were five accessions, so that in its second term 
fourteen pupils were enrolled, some being quite tardy in their 
arrival. In their report made at this time, December, 184G, the 
directors state to ths General Assembly that if the means to 
complete the building were supplied they could also admit the 
deaf-mutes of Missouri, Iowa, Arkansas and Wisconsin to a 
participation in its advantages. Except Arkansas, all of these 
States did, in a few j^ears, send deaf children to this institution 
for instruction. 

A regulation that seriously impeded the growth of the institu- 
tion in its early history was one which had a similar paralyz- 
ing effect on institutions in other States, namely, a provision 



13 



that required parents of deaf children who could not command 
the means to pay for their tuition and board to make an affl- 
ihivit to that effect before a justice of the peace who should 
then certify to that fact. In recommending the repeal of this 
provision the directors say: "The only effect in requiring these 
certificates, so far as we can see, is to deprive many of those 
who are actually too poor to pay for the advantages of the 
institution. Many parents, though barely able to provide food 
jand clothing for their families, cannot bring themselves to sub- 
Imit to the disagreeable task of going before justices of the 
pt^ace and asking for certificates of poverty." During the year 
jl846 earnest efforts were made to ascertain the number, names 
and residences of the deaf and dumb within the State by personal 
exploration of the State, circulars of inquiry to census commis- 
sioners of 1845, and to clergymen of various denominations, by 
wliich means the names of one hundred and sixty were obtained 
of whom but six or eight were in circumstances to pay for their 
support at the school. These efforts in tim.e bore fruit, though 
probably not as soon as was expected. 

In the fourth biennial report, December, 1848, only three years 
after the opening of the school, the directors find that the build- 
jiiig that in their first report they had stated would answer for 
many years to come, and in their third report had intimated 
its adequacy for the deaf-mutes, not only of Illinois, but also 
foi' those of Missouri, Iowa, Arkansas and Wisconsin, was now 
quite crowded, though only sixty pupils had been received, ten 
of whom were from Missouri and one from Iowa. They accord- 
ingly applied to the General Assembly for an appropriation of 
ten thousand dollars to extend the buildings by the erection of 
a main building to which the existing structure should be a 
wing. For most other purposes the building then in use would 
have been adequate for a much larger number of persons than 
it then served. Such a multiplicity of things must be done for 
the deaf and dumb in the course of their education that they 
require more room than any other class of people, Separate 
provision must be made in sitting-room, dining-room, bed-room, 
school-room, chapel and shop so that at the very infancy of 
this institution for each one six separate and distinct provisions 



14 ! 

hati to be made, beside those provisions which can be used in 
common such as kitchen, bath rooms and lavatories and 
laundry. 

With the coming of new classes at the opening- of each school 
year it became necessary to employ additional instructors. At 
the outset the directors clearly determined that their policy 
should be to employ only competent instructors with previous 
experience in this peculiar work. The principle that had gov- 
erned them in the selection of a principal they adopted as a 
g;overning' one in the appointment of subordinate officers. In 
the fourth biennial report, the second alter the opening- of the 
school, the directors wisely say, "In the employment of iutruct- 
ors the directors have endeavored as far as possible to engage 
none but those possessing the very best qualifications, and it is 
their design to continue in future to act upon the same princi- 
ple. The difficulties to be encountered in teaching the deaf and 
dumb are such that persons possessing even the best common 
education could be of little service. We deem it, therefore, of the 
highest importance that the instructors be men possessing a 
thorough education." No profession or vocation in life more 
seriously demands skillful training and protracted experience 
than the profession of deaf mute instruction, and yet it seems 
impossible to make many people understand this. No one 
Avould seriously think of placing a piece of fine goods in the 
hands of a novice to make a garment, yet the importunities 
sometimes made to place a mere tyro in charge of a class of 
children to practice on their minds for a term of years until he 
acquires skill would be amusing were they not astounding. It 
is a pitiful scene to witness the blunders of a novice in his ef- 
forts to instruct a class of deaf mutes. The intentions are good 
and the well-meant efforts are the best he can do. If the loss 
resulting from his mistakes was visited upon the tyro it might 
be patiently tolerated, but, alas, it falls upon the deaf mute 
child whose golden moments are being wasted. A thoroughly 
educated young person with a natural aptitude for teaching can 
not become fully equipped for this work in a shorter time than 
seven years, and even then will, if honest, confess that he has 
but just entered into acquaintance with the profession and is but 
beginning to get a view of its philosophy and scope and the 
immense difficulties it involves. The loss of a capable teacher is 



15 



a calamity to an institution, while to "-ain one is a stroke of 
good fortune indeed. This institution has been compelled to 
train and induct some young persons into this work who, in 
process of time, have become thoroughly- efficient, but when- 
ever able to do so, has drawn them from elsewhere. Upon the 
institutions in ten States we have at various times made di-afts. 

When the school was first opened the policy was adopted of 
entrusting the domestic department to a steward, allowing him 
a stipulated sum for boarding each pupil. This plan was con- 
tinued for two years, when, being found unsatisfactory, it was 
discontinued and the steward was made an agent of the Board. 
He was, however, continued an independent officer amenable 
only to the Board. This arrangement makes an institution a 
double-headed affair, in which there will inevitably be conflict 
and misunderstanding. It has been tried in most, if not quite 
all public institutions with the same results. It has seemed 
almost as inevitable for an institution to pass through this ex- 
perience as for children to be attacked with colic, measles and 
whooping-cough. It is a principle that everywhere else is uni- 
versally condemned as subversive of order and system. As well 
undertake to wage a war with two generals to an army, or 
send a ship on a voyage with two captains, as to undertake to 
successfully operate a public institution with two heads by what- 
ever titles they may be called. This plan was followed in this 
institution for eight years with such friction that the Legisla- 
ture by legal enactment, regardless of the Board of Directors, 
abolished the office of steward and placed the institution under 
the sole management of one head. Had this sensible and rea- 
sonable plan been entered upon at the outset a vast amount of 
unnecessary animosity and wrangling would have been avoided. 
This action of the General Assembly was upon a recommenda- 
tion of a special committee appointed to inquire into the diffi- 
culties and troubles that had so long disturbed the institution. 
This was a Joint conmiittee from the Senate and House of Rep- 
resentatives, of which Senator Robert Boal, then of Marshall 
county, but later of Peoria, Illinois, was chairman. Dr. Boal 
was soon after appointed a member of the Board of Directors, 
which relation he sustained for seventeen years, part of the time 
being President of the Boai'd. Dr. Boal's influence on the insti- 
tution was most enlightened, helpful and progressive. 



16 



The subject of industrial training- secured immediate attention 
upon the opening of the institution. The pupils when admitted 
in those dayn had already become stout youth and were well 
able to perform physical labor. The boys were required to pass 
a portion of each day in doing- such chores as sawing, splitting 
and carrying wood, and work in the garden. The girls were 
taught various kinds of housework and sewing, but there was 
soon developed the necessity for trades as a department of sys- 
tematic instruction. The first teacher who was permanently 
employed, Mr. Nathan M. Totten, while a pupil of the New York 
Institution had acquired some knowledge of cabinet-making. 
In May, 1848, the Board purchased an inferior frame structure 
which they hauled upon the grounds of the institution. In the 
following month Mr. Totten, in addition to his labors in the 
school-room began the instruction of male pupils in the cabinet- 
maker's trade. About this time some sporadic work was done 
by pupils at shoe-making, but not till October, 1857, was the 
instruction in this trade systematic and regular. The directors 
in their fifth report, December, 1859, speaking on the import- 
ance of trades in an institution for the deaf and dumb speak so 
wisely that it is fancied a more lucid and satisfactory state- 
ment of the whole question has seldom, if ever been made. 

"The more we see of the practical workings of +he plan of con- 
necting manual labor with mental and moral instruction, of 
calling into exercise the physical energies, and directing them 
to some definite and useful object, while the intellect and heart 
are being tra,ined, the more we are convinced of its importance 
and practicability. Without some regular employment, requir- 
ing bodily exercise, many neglect to take such an amount of 
daily exercise as is necessary to a healthy condition of the body, 
or to a vigorous exercise of the mind. Although at times the 
ordinarj^ games and sports of youth, in which the deaf and 
dumb engage with as much zest as others, would seem to afford 
an abundance of healthy exercise, yet these all in turn become 
wearisome to the most lively and playful, and frequently for 
weeks together they seem to take no plea,sure in them. This 
want of exercise superinduces listlessness, low spirits, discontent, 
dissatisfaction, and other kindred feelings, which are utterly in- 
compatible with success in the great object for which they are 
assembled together. 



17 



"Another advantage gained by the connection of manual with 
intellectual labor is, that there is much less liability to disturb- 
ances and irregularities of conduct among the pupils after 
school hours. This, among a large number of j^outh, is a mat- 
ter of no small consequence. Possessing, as mutes do, all the 
varieties of disposition as exhibited by others, it would be un- 
reasonable to expect harmony and good conduct among so 
many, if left without regular employment duiing the hours 
necessarily devoted to exercise and recreation. Frequent dis- 
putes a,nd difficulties would unavoidably arise, l^'urnishing tliem i 
with some stated occupation during a portion of those hours 
is the best securit^^ against these difficulties. No serious dis- 
turbance has ever occurred among the pupils at the Illinois in- 
stitution, and it is chiefly to be attributed to the fact that they 
are thus occupied. 

"But the chief advantage remains yet to be mentioned. It is 
that the pupils thus acquire habits of industry, which are of 
great value to them in after years. In comparison with this it 
is a small matter that a few dollars are saved annually to the 
institution by the labor of the pupils. The attainment of this 
object would, we think, justify the outlay of considerable sums, 
if necessary ; for unless such habits are formed before leaving 
school, it is greatly to be feared that, in view of the difficulties 
which a mute has to encounter in getting employment, many 
of them will lack the energy and tact necessary in providing 
for themselves. Failing in this they will lose their self-respect 
and will be too apt to become wandering beggars, living upon 
the charities of others. Wherever there is a mute in the family 
it almost universally calls forth the tenderest sympathies of the 
parents. Feeling that they cannot reason with it as they can 
with their other children, about right and propriety, they too 
often allow it to grow up almost entirely without restraint, re- 
quiring of it no more labor than seems agreeable to its own 
feelings. If the habits of indolence which they thus form are 
allowed to continue dui'ingthe whole period of their attendance 
upon school, by the time that they are ready to go forth from 
the institution, these habits will have become so fixed that there 
will be little prospect of their ever being entirely eradicated. 
When, moreover, it is considered that the pursuits upon which 
—2 D. D. 



18 



a large majority of them must depeud for earning a livelihood 
are of that class which require? considerable phj^sical exertion, 
we cannot but regard manual labor, and the training to habits 
of industry, as a necessary part of the system of education 
which should be adopted in all such institutions. 

"In the accomplishment of this object, shops are an indispen- 
sable requisite. Without them it would be impossible to furnish 
many of the pupils with regular employment, and besides, their 
energ3^ should, as far as practicable, be directed to the acquire- 
ment of some useful occupation The aim and purpose of every 
institution for the deaf and dumb should be to prepare the 
pupils in every respect — physically as well as mentally and 
morally — for becoming good and useful citizens, supporting 
themselves by their own exertions, without being dependent 
upon the community at large or their friends. To this end not 
only should industrious habits be formed, but opportunity 
should be given for acquiring practical knowledge and skill in 
some honest and useful calling. An institution which makes no 
such provision fails to discharge an important duty which it 
owes to the deaf and dumb. For, however, good their educa- 
tion may be in other respects when they go forth from the in- 
stitution, unless they have also acquired some considerable 
knowledge of a trade, experience proves that few tradesmen 
will take the pains necessary to impart that knowledge to them. 
The difficulty does not arise from any want of aptness on the 
part of the deaf and dumb to learn trades; on the contrary, 
their ingenuity is proverbial; but it arises solely from the in- 
convenience which necessarily attends the communication of 
ideas on the part of those unacquainted with the sign language. 
This makes it important that trades be taught them at the in- 
stitution, where, through the medium of their own natural lan- 
guage, instruction in mechanics can be imparted to them as 
readily as any other kind of instruction. 

"As there is the same diversity of talent and taste among 
mutes as among hearing and speaking people, it is important 
that several trades be established at the institution. Those- 
who cannot succeed in one trade may be found to excel in 
another, and it would be well to give them an opportunity to 
make a selection from several pursuits." 



19 



In their fourth report the directors made two important re- 
•commendations to the General Assembly, which, by an act ap- 
proved February 3, 1849, were carried into effect. The first, 
changino' the name of the corporation from the Illinois Asylum 
for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb, to the Illinois Institu- 
tion for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb, and the second, 
providinp: that section 7 of the act of incorporation which re- 
quired certificates of poverty from all who were unable to pay 
tuition and board, should be repealed, and that the institution 
be made free to all within the bounds of the State. The Board, 
in urging- the latter change, state: "The only effect of requiring 
these certificates, as far as we can see, is to deprive many of 
those who are actually too poor to pay, of the advantages of 
the institution. Many parents, though barely able to provide 
food and raiment for their famihes, cannot bring themselves to 
the disagreeable task of going before two justices of the yjeace 
and asking for certificates of poverty." 

Funds for the support of the institution and for making im- 
provements were supplied first by a provision of the act of in- 
corporation which set apart one quarter per cent, of interest 
upon the whole amount of the school, college and seminary fund, 
for the use of the institution, and secondly, by an act approved 
February 23, 1847, making a permanent appropriation of three 
thousand dollars per annum for the same purpose, and thirdly, 
by special appropriation for specific purposes until the year 1851. 
In the meantime, the Illinois State Hospital for the Insane, and 
the Illinois Institution for the Education of the Blind, had come 
into existence and were sustained by a special tax which gave to 
them an assured stability very desirable, and one which this in- 
stitution very greatly needed for its more confident progress. 
The vicissitudes that always attend an appropriation before a 
legislature are seriouslj^ distracting, not only to a board of 
trustees and superintendent, but also to all subordinate officers 
who cannot be oblivious to the fact that an oversight or a cler- 
ical error may subject them for two years to weight}' inconven- 
ience, if not to the entire loss of the means of subsistence; and 
to the pupils also, who are well aware that the entire course of 
their life may be changed to their very great and lifelong disad- 
vantage and perhaps discomfiture. It is as true of deaf mutes 



20 



as of others, that for the best results of school work their minds 
require the absence of distracting^ anxieties and disturbing in- 
fluences. It is entirely an error to suppose that the pupils of 
such an institution take no thought upon these subjects. ' n- 
deed no other class of students enter more fully into all that 
affects their instructors as well as themselves. The directors in 
the fifth report presented this subject to the General Assembly 
and recommended that the institution thereafter should be sus- 
'tained by special tax. 

" The directors would respectfully urge upon your considera- 
tion the propriety of establishing the institution upon a more 
permanent basis. Although the institution for the deaf and 
dumb was the pioneer of the three noble state charities amongst 
us, yet, while the other two have a permanent fund upon which 
to rely for their support from jea.v to year, this institution is 
■obliged to solicit special appropriations at every session of the 
legislature. We have no cause to complain of any want of lib- 
erality oh the part of the legislature towards the institution; on 
the contrary, we are proud in being able to say that no appeal 
has ever been made by the institution but what has been met 
by a hearty response from both branches of the General Assem- 
bly. Still we cannot but feel that there is a degree of uncer- 
tainty and instability necessarily connected with this method of 
supporting the institution, which is a disadvantage to it. We 
would therefore beg leave to recommend that the institution be 
supported either by an appropriation which shall be annual and 
sufficient to cover at least the ordinary expenses, or by a special 
tax, as is the case with the other two institutions. Of the two 
methods proposed, the Board would prefer the latter, as it would 
relieve them of the responsibility and embarrassment connected 
with the disposal of so large an amount of auditor's warrants, 
and as the institution would thereby become more extensively 
known throughout the State than by any means of publication 
within the power of the Board." 

This subject was favorably considered by the General Assem- 
bly, and an act approved April 18, 1857, provided: 

"That for the purpose of defraying the ordinary expenses of 
the Illinois Institution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb, 
a separate fund is hereby created and established, in addition 



21 



to the fund provid«d for in the act of incorporation';to be de- 
nominated, 'The fund for the Education of the DeafJand!Dumb,' 
which shall consist of one-sixth of a mill upon each dollar's 
worth of taxable property in the State, to be taken and deducted 
from the tax of two mills on the dollar, authorized to be assessed 
and collected for paying the ordinary expenses of government 
by the act passed on the first day of March, one thousand eight 
hundred and forty-five, entitled 'An act to provide for paying a 
portion of interest on the State debt,' and as the revenue of the 
State is collected and passed into the treasury, the Auditor shall 
direct the Treasurer to credit the aforesaid fund by the amount 
of one-sixth of a mill, in a separate account to be kept for that 
purpose." 

Such a provision for the support of an institution is the ideal 
one, so far as the institution itself is concerned, but whether 
this does not in a measure estop the frequent exhibit to the 
people of its workings and prevent the recognition of the ac- 
countability which should never be forgotten by public ofiicers 
may be seriously questioned. As the manager of an institu- 
tion one should most unhesitatingly favor it, but as a citizen 
and taxpa.yer one would object to it. But whether the wisest 
or not, the law under consideration was continued in force only 
four years, being repealed by an act amending the revenue 
laws, February 14, 1855, since which time its necessities have 
been provided for by special acts of successive sessions of the 
General Assembly, with the exception of the small amount that 
accrued to the institution in pursuance of the act of incorpora- 
tion, which set apart to it, as already detailed, a small por- 
tion of the interest of the school, college and seminary fund. 
This, however, was taken from it and turned over to the Illinois 
Normal University in the year 1872. 

Reference has been made to the conflict between the principal's 
and steward's departments, which resulted in the dismissal of 
three stewards by the Board and the abolishment of the stew- 
ard's office in all the institutions of the State by an act of the 
General Assembly, February 13, 1857. The events that led up 
to these dismissals and this enactment were attended with very 
unpleasant controversies between the friends of the parties most 
interested. Bitter antagonisms, as was inevitable under such 



22 

I 

circumstances, were engendered which could not be suppressed] 
The consequence was that after the failure of i-epeated efforts' 
to harmonize the discordant elements in the Board of Directors, 
and in the institution, that on the 16th of October, 1855, Mi 
Thomas Officer resigned the office of principal of the institu- 
tion. This was shortlj^ followed by the resignation of the sec- 
retary and treasurer, and by the withdrawal of two members 
fi'om the Board. Kev. Thomas M. Newell, who had been one 
of the instructors for four years, was offered the office of 
principal, but declined to accept it or even to superintend 
the school until a competent principal could be found. The 
institution being without a competent head was thrown into 
great confusion: the pupils most of them absconded, or were 
removed by friends; some teachers withdrew, and others, hav- 
ing nothing to do, were dispensed with, only two remaining to 
instruct the few pupils who had continued at the institution. 
Rev. Newton Cloud, a member of the Board, a gentlemen held 
in the highest esteem by the entire community, was requested 
to accept the oflSce of principal, and was by action of the Board 
clothed with all authority pertaining to that position. Mr. 
Cloud consented to do the best he could under the demoralized 
condition of affairs, but knowing himself not qualified for the 
position, and being too honest to hold a position he could not 
faithfully and efficiently fill, would only consent to occupy it 
until a competent principal qualified by professional knowledge 
and actual experience could be obtained to discharge its duties 
permanently. Soon after Mr. Officer's resignation a connnittee 
of five members of the Board was appointed "To ascertain who 
can be employed to act as principal of the institution," but the 
withdrawal of the chairman of the committee from the Board 
and other causes prevented their doing anything in the matter. 
After reorganization and some futile efforts to act, the commit- 
tee, upon their own request, were discharged, and the president 
of the Board was requested to visit various institutions in 
search of a competent man for the position. After a search of 
two months he returned and recommended to the Board Mr. 
Edward Peet, of New York, who was unanimously elected and 
notified thereof, and requested to enter upon his duties as prin- 
cipal of the institution without delay. Mr. Peet promptly ap- 



f 23 

peared on the ground, and a meeting jof the Board was con- 
vened at his desire to conclude negotiations, but when the 
Board convened, to their surprise, Mr. Peet had "quietly folded 
his tent" and returned to New York without waiting to meet 
the gentlemen of the Board, some of whom lived in remote 
places in the State. Mr. Peet, however, favored the Board with 
a letter from his home in New York declining to accept the ap- 
pointment. The president of the Board was instructed to open 
immediate communication with Mr. Philip G. Gillett, of the In- 
diana institution, with whom he had some negotiations v/hile 
on his way to the East, and who had failed to receive an 
important communication forwarded him by mail several 
weeks before. The president carried out his instructions by 
deputizing Rev. Newton Cloud, the acting principal, to 
personally visit Mr. Gillett at his home in Indianapolis and 

I close an engagement with him if possible. Mr. Cloud, who 
had grown weary of the novel labors he had undertaken 
and had become satiated with its honors, lost no time in 
making the proposed visit and bringing back with him the 
young man in search of whom he was dispatched Mr. Cloud 

! having captured, wisely bagged his game and took him at 

i once to the institution, where he was safe from any evil 
influences that might tend to scare him away. Mr. Gillett, 
after a few days' survey of the situation, and becoming assured 
that all requisite and proper authority and i:)rerogatives, 
including the selection of all subordinate officers, would be ac- 

j corded him, and that he should be the sole head of the institu- 
tion and the sole organ of communication between the Board 
and the subordinate departments, signified his willingness to 
accept the position of principal. Some of his friends thought it 
a rash thing for a beardless youth to do, but accounted for it 
upon the principle that "fools rush in where angels fear to 
tread.'' Mr. Gillett (derisively styled "that boy that's come 
to run the deaf and dumb") at once (April 26, 18561 entered 
upon the duties of the principalship of the institution. Of the 
one hundred and seven pupils that had been present in the fa. 
only twenty -two remained. The matron and all but two of the 
teachers had left the institution, feeling, as one of the local papers 
j said in announcing Mr. Gillett's coming, that "Acceptance under 



24 



1 



such circumstances was proof positive of incompetence and un- 
trustwortliiness." To bring too^etlier and or<2,-anize a new corps 
of officers and restore confidence in former pupils and tlieir 
parents, and overcome prejudice, was the difficult task to be 
done as soon as possible. Guilty of the "atrocious ci-ime of 
being a, young man," with a face innocent of down, he not un- 
frequently experienced amusing episodes as well as trying and 
vexatious unreasonableness. Time, however, rapidly healed the 
misfortune of youth, as Mr. Gillett promised it should if only 
a due amount of patience was shown him. The Board of Di- 
rectors in the eighth biennial report, December 26, 1856, eight 
months after Mr. Gillett's advent, in announcing the change of 
principals, say, " The Board of Directors now have the pleasure 
to announce that they have been enabled to procure the services 
of Mr. Philip G. Gillett, of Indiana, as superintendent, and that 
the school opened this session with, and has now a larger num- 
ber of pupils than at any previous session, the number being 
one hundred and nine. The Board of Directors deem them- 
selves fortunate in having procured the services of Mr. Gillett. 
He is a gentleman of strong and vigorous mind, and accom- 
plished scholar and experienced in teaching the sign language; 
indeed, he has made this his occupation for life, and with him 
it is as"'much a labor of love as duty. Mr. Gillett comes to us 
highly recommended from the Indiana school and from dis- 
tinguished citizens of our neighboring State, and we are well 
satisfied that the people of Illinois will be content with the 
action of the Board in calling Mr. Gillett to the head of the 
institution." Twenty years later, in 1876, in preparing their 
report for the centennial year, the Illinois State Board of Pub- 
lic Charities review the history of all the State institutions then 
in existence, and in their review of this institution say, "With 
the advent of Mr. Phillip G. Gillett to the superintendency, in 
1856, the institution entered upon a new career of vigorous 
youth and expansion. His energetic spirit has driven the school 
the public and even the Legislature before him. When this has 
been impossible, he has sometimes gone in advance himself and 
waited for the rest to come up." 

Three serious problems presented themselves to the new principal 
immediately upon assuming the responsibilities of his office. The 
first was to secure the return of the absent pupils and to gain 



25 



j the confidence of their parents and friends; the second to brin^ 
i! together and organize a corps of officers; and third to hasten 
the completion and proper furnishing of nnconipleted buildings. 
No parents are more chary of entrusting their children to 
strangers than the parents of deaf-mutes. This is reasonable, 
for the deaf child's every want has been the subject of parental 
solicitude in every hour of its life. Unable to make known its. 
wants by ordinary methods, their anticipation has become the 
pa-rental habit, and its limited gestures always appealing most 
touchingjy to the sympathy of members of the family, are un- 
derstood by them only. It is extremely hard for the parents ta 
believe that another can or Vvill do this better than themselves^ 
The ordeal of committing a deaf child to strangers is one of the- 
most trying that ever comes to a parent. After witnessing it 
continuously for forty years, and having been one of the parties, 
in more than two thousand cases, it still remains to me an 
affecting scene. While of necessity it possesses an element ot 
business, yet its element of sentiment is as decided as at first. 
Personal visits in the homes of the pupils were the means chiefly 
relied upon and found most effective in inducing the return of 
pupils to the institution at the beginning of the next term, 
which opened with a larger attendance of pupils than any pre- 
vious term. 

Experienced teachers and a matron were secured in other 
states, some former teachers were continued or re-engaged and 
a new one was taken under training in time to be of some avail 
when needed. Up to this time the profession of instructing the 
deaf and dumb had been practiced only by men, and solely by 
hearing and speaking men who were college graduates or by 
deaf men who were graduates from institutions for the deaf and 
dumb. No women to this time had been regularly appointed 
anywhere upon the corps of instruction, though there were a 
very few instances in which females who were born or reared 
in institutions had been for a time engaged to supply vacancies, 
but this had been regarded as unprofessional, irregular and not 
to be approved. Necessity sometimes drives us to the adoption 
of most excellent expedients, as was the case of the women 
alluded to. There are no otber persons who so well know the 
deaf and dumb, and so fully enter into sympathy with them, 

—3 D. D. 



26 



and so clearly understand their inner life, as tiiose who have 
been born and reared among them. In entering; upon the work 
of instructing' the deaf they have advantages at the outset that 
one diiJerently reared can acquire only by long years of associa- 
tion with them. Indeed, it may be questioned if any others even 
as fully, accurately, and justly understand the deaf and dumb as 
the}'. Consequently it would seem as almost an imperative duty 
for such persons to devote their lives to the work of deaf-mute 
instruction. 

Mr. ( Jillett having seen some of these sporadic cases of women 
temporarily engaged in instructing deaf-mutes, and believing 
that as teachers of children none are superior to women, in 
organizing a corps of instruction appointed a woman upon it 
as a regular and permanent teacher. This has been followed by 
similar appointments iu this and all the other institutions of 
America, until now more than two-thirds of the teachers of 
<3eaf-mutes in America are women. It is urged by eminent au- 
thority that in this the profession had deteriorated, but no one 
has yet shown that the work accomplished in the school rooms 
of the institutions for the deaf and dumb is at all inferior to 
that of forty years ago. It is believed to be better. In select- 
ing women for instructors the same governing principles were 
recognized as in selectina: men, that they should have a college 
education or its equivalent. On this subject, in his first report 
to the Board of Directors, the principal insisted. In the organ- 
ization of an institution nothing is of greater importance than 
to secure persons of superior attainments to fill the offices of the 
intellectual and its cognate departments, and to make their sit- 
uations permanent. "No person is qualified for a situation in 
a deaf mute institution who could not succeed in any profession, 
especially one which depended mainly on public speaking; nor will 
the ordinary duties admit of taking men worn out in other pro- 
fessions; nowhere does a drone succeed more poorly than teach- 
ing the deaf and dumb. For teachers we must look to young, 
entei prising persons in the prime of life; and, as a general rule, 
the employment of young, active officers is desirable in all de- 
partments. If we expect persons in the prime of life, with the 
world opening before them its long vista of hopes and anticipa- 
tions, it must be perfectly evident that a remuneration corre- 



27 



spondinfi' with the emoluments of other professions must be af- 
forded, otherwise we shall be unable to procure and retain men 
of the right stamp; a result which would be extremely detrimen- 
tal to the literary character of the institution and of but slight 
•advantage as regards its finances." These have been the ruling- 
principles in the selection of officers to the present time. INo in- 
fluence has ever been allowed to contravene them. In conse- 
quence its corps has always maintained a high standard of effl- 
•ciencj' and honor. This is well attested by the fact that from 
its corps, ten have been called to superintend similar institutions 
in other states; two have been called to college professorships, 
and one to the acting presidency of an important college. To 
obtain capable, experienced officers has been no slight difficulty. 
Applications for situations have been numerous, but from indi- 
viduals who had no knowledge of the labors they were seeking 
to enter upon. Young men who would not trust their skill to 
cut a side of leather to make a pair of shoes, and young women 
who would not trust themselves to cut a piece of silk to make 
for themselves a dress lest there might be waste of material, 
have often thought it a very proper thing that they be entrusted 
with twenty plastic minds to practice on, it order to acquire 
skill in the intricate and difficult work of instructing the deaf 
and dumb. If the blunders and mistakes entailed loss only on 
themselves they might be tolerated for a time, but unfortunately 
upon the deaf-mute pupils are visited the evil consequences of 
inexperince in the teachers. 

In securing competent persons for its official corps this institu- 
tion has, at various times, drawn from those of eleven other States. 
The only question that has ever been discussed with reference to 
proposed appointments has been capabilit^'^ and fitness. Party 
affiliations and sectarian predilections have never been consid- 
ered in this connection. That practice that of late years has 
debased some institutions for the deaf and dumb in other States 
to party boodleism has never invaded the Illinois institution. 

The subject that engaged much solicitude at the reorganization 
of the institution was the condition of the buildings. The mem- 
bers of the first Board of Directors were men eminent and suc- 
cessful in their own callings, and of great prominence in the 
State, but they are a striking instance of how important it is 
for any enterprise to be directed b^' a mind that understands 



28 



what he has iu hand and how to accomplish the work in con- 
templation. The first building erected, in three years after its 
occupancy, Avas proved inadequate, which the directors explain 
in their fifth report, saying: "The original building was put up 
before anyone had been employed who was familiar with the 
wants of such an institution." Some reraodelino" was done on 
this in connection with the construction of a main edifice which 
was completed in the year 1852. But in two years this latter 
was found to be insecure, and in the year 1854 its front was 
torn down to be rebuilt in connection with the erection of a 
north wing. At the time of the reorganization these buildings 
were incomplete, being unplastered and only partially floored. 
The plans for warming and lighting them contemplated ordinary 
wood stoves and lard oil lamps. This subject was accordingly 
urged upon the Board and the legislature with the result that 
the appropriations weie made to adopt steam heating and gas 
lighting. 

In the first report he prepared, Mr. Gillett called the attention 
of the legislature to the subject of the education of feeble-minded 
children. The processes of education practiced in this institution 
being the most elementary of any practiced in the State, such chil- 
dren were often brought here under the misapprehension that as 
they were speechless that they must be deaf. A mistake com- 
mon even yet, a frequent concomitant of mental imbecility being 
absence of speech when the hearing faculty is perfect. At that 
time there was a general disbelief in the practicability of teach- 
ing the feeble-minded, though in the Eastern States a few insti- 
tutions for this class were advocated by the most cautious and 
conservative citizens as a wise measure of political economy, as 
well as a pubhc duty. In this report (the eighth), Mr. Gillett 
stated: "It will certainly be a proud day for Illinois when she 
can boast of institutions whose blessings, like the rains and 
dews, the air and sunshine, are festooned alike upon all her un- 
fortunates." This subject was presented from time to time till 
the legislature, in 1865, was induced to make an appropriation 
for an experimental school for feeble-minded children, which was 
conducted by the trustees and principal of the Institution for 
the Deaf and Dumb until it was established upon the same in- 
dependent basis as the other State institutions. It is with no 



29 



little pleasure that that institution, in a sense the child of this, 
is seen to occupy a most honorable position among- those of a 
similar nature throughout the world. 

Soon after steam heating- was adopted as a means of warm- 
ing the institution, a scarcity of water was experienced. Previ- 
ous to this, wells and cisterns had been found adequate, but 
under the new system so much more water was required that 
they utterly failed to meet the requirements. Resort was had to 
hauling water from other sources, but this was expensive and 
laborious, and obliged the limited use of an element that should 
be used freely. An expedient was adopted of throwing out wing 
ditches on the north side of College Hill, to catch the storm 
water and conduct it to a reservoir on a piece of low ground 
on the institution premises, but this failed to meet the expecta- 
tions that had been entertained. The subject became more seri- 
ous until it threatened the life of the institution. In the early 
winter of 1870 the Board of Directors decided to construct a 
water-works plant on a stream known as "The Brook," a mile 
south of the institution, and pump the water therefrom to the 
reservoir they had already built. It would have been wiser had 
they abandoned that reservoir and constructed a new one on 
the high ground over which the water was pumped from the 
brook. This plan would have ever after placed the water in the 
building by gravity and saved the perpetual labor of pumping 
it. This was appreciated at the time, but, having as a dernier 
resort assumed the authority of constructing the water-works, 
the Board of Trustees, influenced by a desire to make the small- 
est possible outlay, continued the use of the old reservoir. The 
water-works were not finished until midwinter, the pipe being 
laid in trenches, dug through hard, frozen ground, much of the 
way the frost being driven out of the ground by fires along the 
line where it was proposed to lay the pipes and the foundation 
for the pump and boiler house. This proved successful and had 
the effect not only to relieve the institution from its distress but 
demonstrated to the public the practicability of securing a sup- 
ply of water for the city of Jacksonville upon the same general 
plan. But a few years later the city constructed a system of 
water-works for its own use, from which the institution has since 
secured its supply of water, favorable terms having been 
offered upon which this service would be rendered. Only one 



30 



who has passed through the experience of managing, with a lim- 
ited sujjply of water, a large establishment when the warmth, 
cleanliness, health and daily routine of work and study of a mul- 
titude of persons is involved, can fully appreciate the situation 
of one so circumstanced. The spectres that rise before one in 
this condition are truly appalling. 

The satisfactory settlement of the water question opened the 
way for the rapid growth and enlargement of the institution, 
which was at that time greatly needed, as an epidemic of cerebro- 
spinal-meningitis largely increased the number of deaf children 
in the state. 

The south wing, that had been completed in 1846 and remod- 
eled in 1850, was deemed unsafe and was, in 1871, rebuilt in a 
substantial manner, and in style corresponding with the north 
wing and main building, as rebuilt in 1855 and 1856. Two years 
later a dinitig hall, one hundred by sixty-seven feet, and a hos- 
pital of sixteen rooms were erected. These were followed by the 
erection, in 1874 and 1875, of the school and chapel building, 
containing twenty-eiaht school-rooms and an auditorium capa- 
ble of seating a company of twelve hundred persons. This build- 
ing has been pronounced by competent judges one of the best 
school-houses in the country. Of the dining hall it is an almost 
universal remark that it is one of the most satisfactory and 
pleasing anywhere to be found. 

In 1877 the present industrial building, with ample room 
for schools of printing, cabinet-making (with use of plan- 
ing mill, circular and scroll saw, with lathes for wood-turn- 
ing), shoe-making, and a machine shop and gardener's room 
and engine and other steam machinery, was erected. During 
the year 1879 a large and well equipped laundry was built. 

In the year 1881 spacious horse-barns, and a cottage for boys, 
a store, bakery and library were constructed and occupied. In 
1883 a large daii'y barn was built, and in 1884 a splendid kit- 
chen and a cold storage plant were erected ; in 1886 a gym- 
nasium, natatoriura and drill hall and a cottage for little girls 
were built; in 1888 and 1889 the electric light plant was ex- 
tended through the entire institution, extensive street improve- 
ments were made and the grounds improved and extended; in 
1891 a farjn was purchased for the use of tlie institution, and 
the heating plant enlarged. 



31 



Thus it is seen that the institution has been from its found- 
ing in 1839 an almost constant scene of building- and extension. 
The improvements since the year 1855 have all been of a substan- 
tial and durable character, designed in the light of experience 
for the uses to which they were to be applied. Elaborate orna- 
mentation has been avoided in all of them, yet all are hand- 
some and tasteful. The buildings comprise twenty in number 
and occupy fifteen a,cres of ground. They have a mile and a 
half of cornice, eighteen acres of plastering, eight acres of floor- 
ing, fifteen hundred windows and seven hundred doors. A thou- 
sand electric light lamps are used for their lighting; seven large- 
steam boilers, with .several miles of steam pipe, are a part of 
their heating apparatus. The boilers are also used in culinary 
operations and furnish power for driving the machinery which 
consists of a planing-mill, three turning lathes, a circular saw 
and a scroll saw in the cabinet-shop; an engine lathe, a pipe 
machine and a small lathe in the machine-shop; three presses 
in the printing-office; five washing-machines, a hydro extractor, 
a laundry callender, a shirt ironer and a Sturtevant blower 
in the laundry ; a rotary oven and two cracker machines in the- 
bakery. • 

Until the year 1868 the sign system was the one pur- 
sued in this institution in the instruction of its pupils. 
That is to say, not that signs themselves were taught,, 
but that in explanation of principles and truths or the nar- 
ration of events and in ordinary conversation with pupils 
the language of signs or gestures was used extensively and its 
use encouraged. At the same time it had always been the case 
that much use was made of writing and finger spelling, while 
comparatively little attention was given to articulation and lip 
signs. For be it remembered that for a deaf person there can 
be no articulation though there is articulation by him. Articu- 
lation or speech is a combination of sounds. It is as absurd to 
speak of seeing a sound or reading speech, as of hearing a color. 
The deaf person can produce the sounds but cannot hear them . 
To him they are as unreal as if they did not exist. Hence he 
is forced to substitute vision for hearing. A sign is a distinc- 
tive guiding indication to the eye, whether made by the hand, 
the arms, the bodj^, the countenance or the lips. A spoken 



32 



word is a distinctive g-uidino- iudication to the ear. That which 
is sometimes termed speech-readino' is but the observation of 
lip movements or lip signs much less distinct than manual, or 
brachial signs. As one who understands several languages will 
use the one which pleases and aids him most, so the deaf per- 
son will use such class of signs as is most satisfactory to him. 
Signs made with the hands and arms, aided by the countenance, 
being more perspicuous and often ideographic, the deaf person, 
if left to himself, will almost universally adopt. Hence it is that 
■children who lose hearing after speech has been acquired cease 
to talk and will not resume it until special efforts are taken to 
induce them to do so. To impart speech to one who does not 
hear, or for such an one to acquire speech, is one of the most 
difficult undertakings to which a human being can address him- 
self, for he possesses only half of the organ of speech since the 
organ of hearing is as important an element in speech as the 
organ of voice. There is no speech of any race of men independ- 
ent of the sense of hearing. 

In that large class of persons commonly known in community 
as deaf-mutes, there are several divisions, whose conditions are 
quite unlike; 1st, those whose deafness is congenital, or super- 
vened before speech had been learned; 2d, those whose deafness 
was acquired after they had learned to talk but at so early an 
age that their memory of speech is indistinct; Sd, those who 
became deaf so late that they retain a distinct recollection of 
speech; 4th, those whose deafness is only partial. The third and 
fourth of these divisions can, with comparative ease, use vocal 
utterance, though the fourth experience much less difficulty in 
reading the lip signs of others. Many of tlie second and a few 
of the first division can learn to speak, though all of the first 
and second divisions experience difficulty in reading the lip-signs 
of others. Just which members of these classes will be success- 
ful articulators and lip-readers no one can know until an oppor- 
tunity is given all of them to test their ability. In the year 
1868 classes in articulation and lip-reading were organized in 
this institution, and have been continued to the present time. 
The practice of the institution is to test all pupils who are ad- 
mitted, to learn who give promise of success in these classes, and 
continue such in them during their continuance in the institution. 



Some meet with very gratifjing' success while others but poorly 
repay the great labor involved in their instruction. Many enter 
upon it with avidity which some maintain to the end, but others, 
after a time, importune to be excused from articulation classes, 
urging that it is a lifeless, uninteresting procedure to them. The 
testimony of many of their friends as to its value to them when 
away from the institution is very encouraging, but some parents 
think it labor in vain and request its discontinuance with their 
children. In the estimation of the public generally it is regarded 
as marvelous, and calls to mind the time of the Savior of man- 
kind to whom 

"The blind, the deaf, the dumb were brought 
Lepers and lame, and all were healed." 

This department of the institution has been continuously ex- 
tended until there are now eight instructors whose sole duty is 
to teach articulation and lip-reading. 

As this was the first of the State institutions of Illinois, which 
have become so numerous, and whose support involves so large 
an expenditure in recent ^-ears, comprising more than half the an- 
nual expenditures provided for by the General Assembly, it will 
not be a matter of surprise that there have been a number of 
changes in the law governing its support and management. 
The act of incorporation approved February 23, 1839, empow- 
ered the directors, twenty in number, to fill all vacancies in 
their own body whether occurring by death, resignation or 
otherwise. The Board exercised this prerogative until the year 
1849, when by an act approved February 3 the number of di- 
rectors was reduced to twelve, to be appointed by the governor 
for the term of two years exclusive of the principal, who was to 
continue a director, with the provision that vacancies occurring 
between the biennial appointments made by the governor should 
be filled by the Board of Directors themselves. Under these two 
acts always a majority and much of the time all the directors were 
residents of Morgan county. An act of February 12, 1853, pro- 
vided that the directors should be divided into three classes of 
four, each holding office for six years, exclusive of the principal, 
who was continued ex-officio a member of the Board, it being 
enacted that a majority of the members of the Board should 
reside without the county of Morgan. February 13, 1857, fol- 
lowing the dissensions already referred to, the General Assembly 



34 



reduced the number of directors to six, exclusive of the princi- 
pal, who was continued ex-ofRcio a member of the Board, no 
two of whom should be residents of the same county, with a 
provision that no member of the Board should be employed or 
appointed in or to any office or place under the authority of 
the Board, or should be directly or indirectly interested in any 
contract to be made by said Board for any purpose whatever. 

This law continued in force till April 9, 1869, when this insti- 
tution with all the others belong;ing to or sustained in whole or in 
part by the State were brought under the operation of one act 
intended to unify the institutional Work of the State govern- 
ment. This last act and one supplemental to it approved April 
15, 1875, still in force, are founded in wisdom. The population 
and resources and improvements of the State of Illinois for three 
decades had been growing with unexampled rapidity. Along 
with this growth was a large increase of those classes of people 
found in all times and races who by some physical or mental 
impairment require unusual means of instruction, treatment or 
care. The humane and enlightened influences of the people of 
the State kept pace with the necessities of the times. The con- 
sequence was that the little Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb 
chartered in 1839 and opened in 1846 with four deaf mutes 
had been followed by others, one at a time, until at the end of 
thirty years after the first legislative action they numbered 
thirteen, and their inmates were counted by the thousand with 
the outlook indicating that an increase of institutions and a 
large increase of their inmates were inevitable in the not re- 
mote future. Each of the institutions existed by virtue of en- 
actments pecuhar to itself, no two of them being very similar, 
and their management as dissimilar as the laws bringing them 
into existence; of course there would inevitably be confusion if 
not conflict of interest from so many institutions in various 
localities throughout the State. It would not be considered at 
all strange if under such circumstances the managers of the in- 
stitutions felt themselves invited to the exercise of such adroit 
expedients as they deemed not improper for advancement of 
their several institutions. The systems of keeping accounts 
were so diverse that the citizen desiring to ascertain correct in- 
formation as to the use of public funds appropriated to the 
various institutions could do so only with difficulty. 



35 



The Acts of 1869 and 1875 embodied as much practical wis- 
dom as any that can be found in any one of the United States; 
it has not, in this respect, been surpassed by the act of any 
other state since its enactment, while it has been copied by many. 
Their adjustment of prerogatives and responsibilities between 
the boards of the respective institutions, and a board havino- 
powers of inspection, su^>gestion and recommendation, but no 
administrative power, styled the Board of Charities assures to 
the respective institutions all the advantages of the interest of 
its own board, and secures for it the advantage of frequent in- 
telligent inspection, and regular times of accounting for all ex- 
penditures. There is nothing more important for a public offi- 
cer than the performance of this service often, regularly and 
systematically. It is the popular impression that the public in- 
terest demands this, but the officer himself is as much interested 
therein as the public. Another eminently wise provision of this 
law is the one that members of the local boards and the Board 
of Charities shall serve without compensation, the result of this 
being that the trusteeships are not sought after for mercenary 
reasons, and honorable, high-minded men, actuated by a desire 
to advance noble, humane and educational enterprises, are chosen 
for members of all the boards. There can always be found such 
men in a community such as constitutes the population of Illi- 
nois. The character and wisdom of the members of these boards 
for the last twenty-three years is aptly illustrated by theii- re- 
ports. No more reliable, just and true compendium of the re- 
lations of the defective classes to the public and the obligations 
of the public to them can anywhere be found than is contained 
in the eleven biennial reports of the Illinois Board of Public 
Charities.. Their discussions and conclusions will be dissented 
from by different persons, and especially experts in various de- 
partments of institutional work, but these reports will surely 
stand as acknowledged authority upon the subjects they ti"eat 
upon, and an honor to the members of that Board and their 
able secretary, Mr. F. H. Wines, w^ho has prepared them. 

That the sj'stem of institutional management tends to induce 
if not to cause controversy- on projected improvements and meth- 
ods cannot be denied, but controversy, when conducted by ear- 
nest, sincere and capable disputants, can only result in good. 



36 



The proper, eager interest of one whose life-thought and work 
has been given to a particular enterprise may preclude him from 
duly recognizing the just claims of others, and his schemes for 
future development may, for this reason, all the more fittingly 
be carefully scrutinized by wise and discriminating persons who 
sustain advisory relations to many others. That there have 
been sharp differences between the officers of this institution and 
the Board of Charities upon the wisdom of proposed policies, 
and animated discussions upon them is true, but, as should al- 
ways be the case with high minded men after the questions at 
issue were settled and the "smoke of the contest had cleared 
away," no personal animosities remained, and the general good 
had been advanced. All the operations of both the boards have 
been conducted with a view upon the part of each to do the 
best possible. The pleasant working of this system, so far as 
this institution is concerned, has been largely due to the fact 
that the members of both boards were men of honor, entirely 
above influence of partisan or personal considerations. Only 
men of such character are suitable for such trusts. The State 
of Illinois may be congratulated that its executives hav^e so 
wisely exercised their appointive power. 

The subject of a library for the use of the pupils and the ofH- 
cers of the institution received no attention worth naming in the 
first years of its existence. Some regard was had to it in the 
second decade of the institution, but it was not until the year 
1870 that the subject was systematically and energetically taken 
in hand. At every session of the General Assembly since that, 
the subject has been presented, with an application for a small 
appropriation to be used in this way. It is a pleasure to say 
that this has met with the most ready and hearty approval of 
every session of that honorable body. An annual appropriation 
of five hundred dollars, for the purchase of books and repairs of 
the old and worn ones, has been made. A judicious use of the 
money, with the trade discounts, has brought together a col- 
lection of over thirteen thousand volumes, which are among the 
best productions of ancient and modern times. The greatest 
care has been exercised in the selection of these books to secure 



37 



the works of the best authors. The departments of history, 
poetry, fiction, travel, science, biography, and art, with the best 
encj'clopedias and other books of reference are each quite full. 
Nothing' tends more to give an institution a good uplift than a 
good library. Its influence is not ephemeral but far reaching, 
affecting the taste and habits of the pupils to the remotest per- 
iod of their lives, keeping them upon a higher plane than they 
\\ ould, without it, ever have attained. The love of good books 
is one of the most ennobling traits than any one can possess, 
but for a deaf person it is of far greater importance than to any 
other person. 

Since the commencement of the school there have been two 
thousand, two hundred and fifty-five pupils enrolled, of whom 
one thousand, two hundred and eighty seven are males, and nine 
hundred and sixty-eight are females. They were members of two 
thousand and seven families. In one family there were six deaf- 
mutes. In seven families there were four deaf mutes. In fifty- 
four families there were three deaf mutes. In one hundred and 
fifteen families there were two deaf mutes. In one thousand, eight 
hundred and twenty-nine families there was one deaf-mute. 

Though there are, doubtless, some of whom the fact has not 
been learned, yet one hundred and ten of the pupils enrolled 
have been reported as the off-spring of parents of consanguineous 
origin as follows: 

79 children of first cousins. 

12 children of second cousins. 

11 children of third cousins. 
8 children of fourth cousins. 
1 the grandchild of first cousins. 
1 the child of uncle and niece. 

It is worthy of note that in families where the parents were 
first cousins in one case there were four deaf-mutes; in three 
cases there were three deaf-mutes; in seven cases there were two 
deaf-mutes. In families where the parents were second cousins 
in one case there were three deaf-mutes: and in one there were 
two deaf-mutes. In families where the parents were third cousins 
in one case there were three deaf-mutes and in two there were 



38 



two dpaf-inutes. In families wheie the parents were fourth 
cousins in one case theie were four deaf-mutes and in one case 
there were thi-ee deaf-mutes. 

The deaf-mute relationships reported among the 2,255 pupils 
enrolled (though there are probably others) are as follows: 



Father and mother 

Father, molher and brother 

Father, mother and two grandparents 

Father, mother and two brothers, two uncles and two aunts 
Father, mother, brother, sister, two uncles and two aunts... 

Father, moiher, uncle and two grandparents 

Father, mother, aunt and half uncle 

Father, grandfather and uncle 

Father and brother 

Father and sister 

Father, uncle and aunt 

Mother 

One brother 

U'wo brothers 

Three brothers 

Two brothers and sister 

One brother and one sister 

One brother find two sibters 

One brother and half sister 

Two brothers and one si.ster 

Three brothers and two sisters 

one half brother 

Three brothers and sister 

Four brothers and one sist°r 

One half brother and half sister 

One half brother'and sister 

Brother, sister and two grandparents 

Brother, sister and uncle 

Brother, uncle and aunt 

One brother and one great uncle 

One brother, two sisters aad one second cousin 

Two brothers and one uncle 

Two brothers and third cousin 

One brother and three third cousins 

One brother and one second cousin 

One brother and two cousins 

One brother ind three cousins 

Two brothers and one cousin 

Two brothers and three cousins 

One brother, one sister and three cousins 

One brother and one cousin 

One brother and two second cousins 

One brother, one sister, one unc e and two aunts 

One brother, two sisters, one uncle and two aunts 

Two brothers, one sister, two uncles and four aunts 

One brother, one sister and cousin 

One brother, one sister and second cousin 

Two brothers and two cousins 

One half brother and one sistor 

One brother and one niece 

One brother, one great uncle and one great aunt 

One brother and one fourth cousin 

One brother and one great uncle 

One sister 

Two sisters 

Three sisters 

One sister and one cousin 

One sister and one second cousin 

One sister and one third cousin 

One sister and one fourth cousin 

One sister and two second cousins 

Two sisters and two second cousins 

Two sister- and two great grand parents 

One sister and one great uncle 

One sister, one great uncle and one great aunt 



39 



Que cousin , 

Three cousins 

Five cousins 

One seoond cousin 

Two second cousins 

Four second cousins 

Onr third cousin 

Two third cousins 

One fourth cousin 

One cousin and three second cousins — 
One second cousin and one third cousin 

Three second cousins 

Two fourth cousins 

One uncle 

One uncle and one great uncle , 

One uncle and two aunts 

One uncle and one niece 

Two uncles and cue aunt 

One great uncle 

Two great grand uncles 

One niece 

Two nephews and one niece 

One aunt 

Two great aunts 

One niece 



57 
6 
1 

15 
8 
2 
7 



The assigned causes of deafness supervening after birth have 
been reported by friends, usually the parents, to be as follows: 



Cerebro- spinal meningitis 333 

Scarlet fever 155 

Brain fever UO 

Sickness (not specified 92 

Fevir 56 

Gathering in head 55 

Typhoid fever 56 

Measles 54 

Cold 33 

Fall 30 

Inflammation of the brain 28 

Whooping cough 24 

Spasms 21 

Catarrh 20 

Diphtheria 16 

Quinine 15 

Congestion of the brain 13 

Dropsy of the brain 11 

Lung fever 10 

Scrofula 10 

Inllammation of the ear 9 

Billions fever 9 

Mumps 8 

Winter fever 8 

Teething 7 

Nervous fever 6 

Spinal fever 5 

Disease of the ear 5 

Congestive chill 5 

Paralysis 4 

Catarihal fever 4 

Disease of the ear 4 

Pueumonia 4 

Cholera infantum 4 

Fright 4 

Sore mouth 4 

Erysipelas 4 



Intermittent fever 

Fall into water 

Remitiing fever 

Congestion of the spine 

Sunstroke 

Malarial fever 

Cramps 

Seasickness • 

Small-pox 

Cold water 

Stroke on the head 

Hemorrhage 

Pernicious fever 

Heat 

isprain 

Chicken-pox 

Bronchitis 

Typhus fever 

Bronchial affection 

Shingles 

Worm fever 

Clap of thunder 

Water on brain 

Collection in ear 

Kidney disease 

Congestive fever 

Jaundice 

Cancer '. 

Absence of external ear and aural ori- 
fice 

Perforation of tympanum 

Lye 

Cold plague 

Scald 

Ague 

Apoplexy 

Drinking lye 



4 
<3 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 



40 



Fall on stove 

Scald head 

Burn 

Chill 

Pneumonitis 

Bickets 

Cholera 

Shock of lightning 
Swelling in head . 



Weakness 

Cramp 

Influenza 

Salt in ear 

Concussion of the brain . 

Yomiting: 

Inflammation of bowels.. 
Cough 



A cause inducing congenital deafness which does not appear 
on the foregoing list is one upon which, from its peculiar 
nature, it is exceedingly difficult to obtain information. Kefer- 
ence is here made to prenatal impressions, popularly known as 
birthmarks. As opportunity has favorc^d, inquiries have been 
made of parents with reference to this, causing the persuasion 
that it is an active cause, and may account for many cases of 
deafness otherwise inexplicable. 

The ages at which deafness has occurred, as far as informa- 
tion has been furnished, have been as follows : 



Congenital 

tJnder one year 

At one year 

At two years . . . 
At three years . 
At four years... 
At five years . . . 

At six years 

At seven years. 
At elght'years.. 



Cases. 



588 
297 
212 
217 
131 
81 
tin 
33 
38 
18 



At nine years 

At ten years 

At eleven years 

At twelve years 

At thirteen years .. 
At fourteen years.. 

At fifteen years 

At sixteen years. . . 
At seventeen years 
At twenty years 



Cases. 



11 
16 
14 
3 
10 
9 
1 
1 
1 
1 



The reports received of pupils who have passed through the 
institution and are engaged in the battle of life are of a very 
gratifying nature. They are in a great variety of occupations, 
including the clergy, teachers, artists, farmers, book-keepers, 
mercantile and all the mechanic arts. Thirty-three of them are 
known to have been engaged as teachers in schools for the 
deaf. An extended account of their successes and difficulties 
might be written, but present limits will not admit. Their 
position in society is such that they enjoy the universal respect 
and esteem of the community wherein they reside. As heads of 
families many of them are rearing excellent and well-ordered 



41 



households, bringing- their children up to a condition of useful- 
ness and respectability that is quite equal, if it does not sur- 
pass that of bhe average in society at large. Their intermar- 
riage has been promotive of their happiness and comfort, and 
has not tended to the multiplication of deaf-mutes, as may be 
seen by a careful study of the preceding table of pupils. 

The institution is an honor to the State of Illinois, and has 
repaid manifold all that has been expended in its upbuilding 
and support. 



— 4D. D. 



42 



LIST OF OFFICERS. 

Of the llhnois Institution for the Education of the Deaf and 
Dumb, from its Organization to June 30, 1892. 



PRESIDENTS OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES. 







Term of 


Term of 




Name. 


service 


service 






began. 


expired. 




1839 
1845 
1857 
1861 
1867 
1869 
1874 


1844 
1857 
1861 
1867 
1869 
1874 

















SECRETARIES OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES. 



George M. Chambers. 
Hon. William Thomas 

Thomas Cfficer 

Hon. William Thomas, 

John L. MnConnell 

Hon. William Thomas. 
Phillip a. Gillett 



1839 


1845 


1845 


1849 


184SJ 


1855 


1855 


1855 


1855 


1856 


1857 


1861 


1861 





TREASURERS. 



Otvvay Wilkinson 

William B. Warren. .. 

David Robb 

William H. Campbell 
Augustus E. Ayers.. 



1839 


1849 


1849 


1855 


1855 


1857 


1857 


1859 


1859 





TRUSTEES. 



Thomas Carlin 

Daniel G. Whitney 

Thomas Cole 

Otway Wilkinson 

Samuel D. Loekwood 

Joseph Duncan 

Dennis Rockwell 

William Thomas 

Julian M. Sturtevant . 



1839 


1842 


1839 


1841 


18:« 


1849 


1839 


1849 


1839 


1853 


1889 


1844 


1839 


1853 


1839 


1855 


1839 


1849 



43 



List of OfRcers — Continued. 

TRUSTEES. 



Name. 



Term of 
service 
began. 



Term of 
service 
expired. 



George M. Chambers 
Samuel M. Prosser. .. 

Porter Clay 

Mathew Stacy , 

Richard P. Barrett... 

Samuel H. Treat 

Cyrus Walker , 

Benjamin F. Morris.. 
William E. Withrow.. 

James MoCrosky 

Thomas Worthington 

James Dunlap 

Andrew Todd 

Thomas Officer 

Orvill H. Browning... 

David A. Smith 

WilUam Brown 

George Craig 

Stephen Sutton 

A. C. Dickson 

William S. Hurst 

Joseph Morton 

William B. Warren 

James Finlev 

Williaiii W. Happy 

William Brown 

J. M. Taggart 

John A. McClernand. 

George T. Brown 

Newton Cloud 

Austin Brooks 

G. D. A. Parks 

William Smith 

Mark Skinner 

M. M. Bane 

John S. Roberts 

John L. McConnell. .. 

E. H. Didlake 

William Reddick 

R. V. Dodge 

Philip G. Gillett 

Robert Boal 

William Thomas 

Nathaniel Niles 

George T. Brown 

L. E. Worcester 

N. W. Matheny 

James N. Brown 

John R. Woods 

John Wood 

Isaac G. Wilson 

John A. Chesnut 

William P. Bair 

Melville A. Gushing.. 

Isaac Lesem 

Stephen R. Capps.... 
Joseph M. Patterson. 
John G. Manahan 



1839 


1849 


1839 


1846 


1839 


1849 


1839 


1849 


1839 


1846 


1839 


1842 


1839 


1842 


1839 


18-16 


1839 


1841 


1839 


1841 


1839 


1842 


1842 


1857 


1845 


1849 


1845 


1855 


1846 


1849 


1846 


1849 


1846 


1849 


1849 


1853 


1849 


1853 


1849 


1857 


1849 


1853 


1849 


1853 


1849 


1857 


1849 


1851 


1851 


1853 


1851 


1853 


1853 


1855 


1853 


1855 


1853 


1855 


1853 


1857 


1853 


1857 


1853 


1859 


1853 


1857 


1853 


185.5 


1855 


1857 


1855 


1857 


1855 


1857 


1856 


1857 


1856 


18.57 


1856 


1857 


1856 


1875 


1857 


1874 


1857 


1868 


1857 


1859 


1857 


1861 


1860 


1869 


1859 


1859 


1861 


1868 


1861 


1869 


1861 


1864 


1865 


1869 


1868 


1874 


1869 


1874 


1874 




1874 


1876 


1874 




1876 


i879 


1879 





SUPERINTENDENTS. 



Thomas Officer., 
Newton Cloud.. 
Philip G. Gillett, 




1855 
1856 



List of Officers— Continued. 

SUPERINTENDENTS' SECBETARIE8, 



Name. 


Term of 
service 
began. 


Term of 

service 
expired. 




1873 
1874 
1881 


1874 
1881 


Harriet Gillett 







TEA.CHERS. 



♦Thomas H. Dunlap 

♦Nathan M. Totten 

*Selah Wait 

John S. Officer , 

*Abel B. Baker 

Frederick B. Holmes 

Thomas M. Newell, , 

WiUiam E. Ijams 

Thomas Caldwell 

Samuel P. Dunlap. A. M, 

Loui« H. Jenkins 

Elizabeth Lawrence 

George B. Dodge 

Eliza Trotter 

Charles H. Laughlin 

Marquis L. Brook 

llCornelia Trask 

*Rachel Veitch 

Elvira P. Gase 

*Mary Waldro 

John H. Woods 

'Frank Read 

Anna B. Osgood 

Harvey W. Milligan 

John W. Swiler 

Jane L. Eggleston 

Isabel E. W^ ods 

Henry C. Hammond 

Mary Dutch 

Gertrude M. Whipple 

*James H.Logan 

Frances E. Goode 

Annie Morse 

Elizabeth W. Locke 

*Elleu M. Dunning 

Prances W. Rockwell 

Frances Brown 

*Lavinia Eden 

■f Agnes J. Griffith 

S. Tefft Walker 

Prances Wood 

Marquis L. Brock 

§Rinda C.Tomlin 

SEliza A. Rockwell 

Ella Westgate 

Lucy King 

tPlorence Clement 

Mary Morse 

Isabella Palmer 

Mary L. Martin 

Louise Gillett 

Sarah L. Wood 

Emma E. Wait 

*Luella J. G' tty 

Laura C. Sheridan 

Mary J. Sheridan 

Cornelia S. Goode 



1846 


1M7 


1847 


1851 


1848 


1882 


1848 


1856 


1849 


1867 


1850 


1852 


1851 


1856 


1852 


1854 


1854 


1857 


1856 


1857 


1856 


1867 


1856 


1857 


1857 


1866- 


1857 


1859 


1857 


1873- 


1858 


1869 


1859 


1883 


1859 


1863- 


1860 


1871 


1863 


1867 


18r>3 




1864 




1866 


1871 


1867 


1882 


1867 


1880 


lour 


looy 


1867 


1871 


1868 


1873 


1868 


1880 


1866 


1872 


18'i9 


1875 


1870 


1873 


1871 




1871 


1875 


1871 


1875 


1872 


1881 


1873 


1877 


1873 




1873 


1888 


1875 


1883 


1875 




1875 




1875 


1882 


1875 


1882 


1876 


1883 


1876 


1881 


1877 


1882 


1877 


1878 


1878 


1885 


1878 




1879 


isso 


1879 


1882 


1880 


1882 


1880 


1885 


1880 




1880 




1880 





* Deaf-Mute. 

§ Teacher of Articulation. 

t Teacher in Art Department. 

II Sign and Articulation Department. 



45 

List of OfBcers — Continued. 

TEACHERS. 



Namb. 



Term of 
service 
began. 



Term of 
service 
expired. 



'Lester Goodman 

Mary E. 0. Johnson , 

♦Naomi S. Hiatt , 

(Alma Gillett 

SJosephine Milligan 

Francis F. Wait 

Allen L. Waddell , 

*Cyntiiia J. Luttrell 

*D. Webster George 

§LauraB. Eicliards 

§Kate A. Getty 

+*Eleanor M. Patten 

+*Mary B. Peek 

ft'Edward C. Campbell . . 

+l*Tiiomas J. Rogers 

; IIMary A. Selby 

John A. Kennedy 

SLouise K. Thiompson 

' §Marie Tole? 

Sarah Noves 

Fi anops Henderson 

Mary Henderson 

■iLueindaGallaher 

George Wing 

Cora B. Gunn 

♦Philip J. Hasenstab 

SRosetta M. Ritsher 

§Idelia M. Parlchurst 

! iFrances Filson 

1 IIHelen H. Wait 

Henry Chester Hammond 

§Jane Vaughn Gillett 

Madian H. Appleby 

§Grace L. Higgins 

Annie E. Tanner 

§Eliza Kent 

+ David D. Smith 

Minnie M. Wait 

Helen L. Palmer 

Frank Read, Jr 

f §Jane L. Russel 

I §Mary E. Holder 



880 


1882 


881 


1886 


881 

882 


1886 


882 


1887 


882 
882 




882 
882 




882 


1884 


882 


J 885 


882 
882 


1888 


882 
883 


i883 


883 
883 




884 


1886 


884 


1886 


88t5 




1885 


1889 


1885 


1889 


1885 


1886 


1885 
1885 


1886 


1886 




1886 


i887 


1886 


1887 


1886 


1892 


1887 




1887 




887 




1887 
1887 
1888 


i892 


1888 
1888 
1889 




1891 




891 




1892 




1892 





INSTRUCTORS OF PHYSICAL CULTURE. 



♦James H. Cloud .. . 

John W. Fulton 

Grace Farr 

George H. Scurlock 




1890 
1892 



MATRONS. 



♦Mrs. Mary E. Totten 

Mrs. E. J. Hewitt 

♦Mrs. Mary E. Totten 

Mrs. Sarah Hurst 

Maria S. Sawyer 

Catharine Bull 

Sarah D. Gibson 



1847 


1851 


1851 


1854 


1854 


1855 


1855 


1856 


1856 


1882 


1882 


1892 


1892 





♦Deaf -Mute. 

§ Te icher of Articulation. 

+ Teacher in Art Department. 

I Penmanship Department. 

II Sign and Articulation Departments. 



46 

List of Officers — Continued. 

ASSISTANT MATRONS. 



Name. 



Term of 
service 
began. 



Sarah Mitchell 

Letitla Westgate 

Catharine Bull 

*Martlia Beeley 

♦Lavinia Eden 

*Ellen S. Berry 

Buth A.. Sturtevant — 

Lavilla Sawyer 

*Margaret Hleronymus 

Emma Braun 

Delia Murphy 

*Eva Ore 

Amanda Temple 



1857 


1860 


1860 


1875 


1868 


1882 


1868 


1871 


1871 


1873 


1873 


1886 


1882 


1885 


1885 


1887 


1886 


1889 


1887 


1888 


1888 


1832 


1889 


1892 


1892 





PHYSICIANS. 



E. B. Boe. M. D 

Owen M. Loner. M. D 
C. H. Knigbt, M. D . . 
A. H. Kellogg, M, D . 



1853 
1853 
1861 
1879 



1853 
1861 
1879 



STEWARDS. 



John Humphrey . 

John T. Jones 

William S. Hurst, 



1845 1852 
]85a 1853 
1853 1857 



CLERKS. 



Leonidas E. Parsons 

J. M. Gillham 

Frank Hine 




1862 
1862 



BOOKKEEPER. 



Lew. H. Pratt. 



1881 



STOREKEEPERS. 



Frank C. Taylor 

Frank Griffith 

Irving Woods 

George H. Seurlock. 
Chalmer W. Sanders 




* Deaf- Mute. 



47 

List of Officers — Continued. 

SUPERVISORS. 



Name. 



Term of 
service 
began. 



Q'erm of 
service 
expired. 



S. Tefft Walker 

Frank C. Taylor 

William D. Reaugh — 

Mary S. Billings 

*Luella J. Getty 

Cbarles Chapman 

T. F. Mo'ely 

Allen L. Waddell 

William K. Barr 

Emma Westgate 

•Cynthia J. Luttrell.... 

James P. Koeney 

George G. Wait 

Lavilia Sawyer 

Emma M. Braun 

Philip J. Hasenstab 

Edward Sheridan 

Margaret DeMotte 

Madian H. Appleby 

James H. Cloud 

William J. Lane 

Oscar Vaught 

Dell Bartoo 

Grace Alexander 

Frank Read, Jr , 

Hallie Bartoo 

Eilery W. Heiss ., 

James Prank Maynard 

Essie Bel.e Howard 

Jennie F. Barr 



ioto 


Jo74 


18T6 


1876 


lo/4 


1879 


lo/D 


1880 


lOiO 


1880 


10/0 


1879 


1 ft77 
10/ / 


1880 


1879 


1882 


1880 


1881 


1880 




1880 


1882 


1882 


1883 


1882 


1885 


1882 


1885 


1882 


1887 


1885 


1886 


1885 


1885 


1885 


1887 


1885 


1887 


1886 


1887 


1887 


1889 


1887 


1891 


1887 


1891 


1887 


1892 


1889 


1892 


1891 


1892 


1891 




1891 




1892 




1892 





visitors' attendants. 



Mary S. Billings 

Ruth M. Palmer 

Margaret Samuel. .. 

Eleanor Allen 

Jane V. Gillett 

Essie Belle Howard 
Emily I. Bodgers .. 



1874 


1876 


1876 


1879 


1879 


1882 


1882 


1885 


1885 . 


1887 


1887 


1892 


1892 





FOREMEN OF CABINET SHOP. 



•Nathan M. Totten 

Jacob Searfoss 

Silas Veitch 

Robert R. Jenkins 
Val. B. Hummel... 
Jacob Braun 



1848 


1851 


1851 


1853 


1853 


1851 


1854 


1867 


1867 


181)7 


1867 





FOREMEN OF SHOE SHOP. 



•Thomas H. Dunlap 

Charles Chappel 

John H. Hunt 

Patrick Divine 

John S. Nimens 



1851 


1855 


1855 


1864 


1864 


1876 


1876 


1884 


1884 





* Deaf-Mute. 



48 

List of Officers— Concluded. 



FOREMEN OF PRINTING OFFICE. 



Name. 


Term ot 
service 
began. 


Term of 
service 
expired. 




1869 
1874 


1874 






FOREMEN OF FARM AND GARDEN. 




1857 
1868 


1868 


Abel L. Hay 





1 




4 




A CLASS IN SCHOOL—OiiL- of thirty. 




A SCHOOL-KOOM—Ouc of thirty. 



4 




1 




AN ARTICULATION CLASS— One of Ihirty-imu- 




AN ARTLCULATLON CLASS— 0,ic of thirty-mne. 



! 

i 




AjV articulation CLASS— One of thirly-nine. 




A HOSPITAL ROOM— One of sixteen. 



.1 



I 





I 



♦i 




A GIRLS' GYMNASIUM CLASS— Oiw of nine 



I 




i 



1! 



I 

i 
I 

\ 




A GIRLS- DORMITORY— One of thirty-seven. 




SOUTH SIDE OF KITCHEN. 




NORTH SIDE OF K ITCH EX, 



III 




1, 




DYNAAdO AND PUMP ROOM. 



r 



I 



E 
D, 

iitil 
I 



49 



LIST OF PUPILS 

Admitted to the Illinois Institution lor the Education of the 
Deaf and Dumb, from its opening, January 26, 1846, till 
September 30, 1886. 



Explanations.— G., g^raduated; H. D., honorably discharged; 
). E., dropped from the rolls; D , died at the institution ; R. S., 
emoved from the State; Ex., expelled. Those not marked are 
till on the rolls of the institution. 

Relatives. — Fr., father; Mr., mother; Br., brother; Sr., sister; 
J., uncle; A., aunt; C, cousin; Gu., great uncle; Ga., great aunt; 
lep., nephew; Nee., niece. 

Remarks.— M'd. D. M., married a deaf-mute. Figures in the 
olumns of Remarks and Deaf-Mute Relatives refer to numbers 
n this catalogue. 

In columns of Cause and Age, B. indicates at birth or born 
leaf. 

In the column of Remarks where no mention is made of chil- 
ren, the understanding is that they all hear. 



-5 D. I). 



50 



LIST OF 



Name. 



postopficb 
Addeess. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 

Dis- 
charge. 



Aaronson, Bertha 

Abbott, William 

Abell, Albert 

Abercrombie, Bessie Alice. 
Abrahamson, Emily 



Abrams, Louis. 
Adair, Mary .J. . 
Adams, .Tames C 
Adams, Jennie. 
Adams, Johin... 



Adams, John 

Adams, Lillian Jeanneite. 

Adams, Mary Lura 

Adams, Mattie Matilda 

Adams, Sarah E 



Adleman, Oeorgre W. 

Adieman, John E 

Adsit, Dorcas 

AKnew, Tyler P 

A'Herrin, Daniel 



Ahrens, Bertha Cathrina. 

Ahrns, Wilhelm 

Ailcens, James W 

Albaugh, Louis J 

Aldrieh, Harry Leroy 



Allard. Charles D.... 
Allbert, Frederick.. . 
Allcorn, Anna Maria. 
Alldridge, James M. . 
Allen, Angeline 



Allen. Bailey 

Allen, John 

Alien, Mai y E 

Allen, ■ arah Eleanor . 
Allen, Susannah 



Allen, WilliKm S 

Almon. Nelson M 

Ames, Melville O 

Ammerman. Ulysses T, 
Ammons, John 



Ammons, Pheriba., 
Ammons, Thomas . 

Anders, Ida 

Anders, Noble 

Anders, William ... 



Anderson, .^.dolph 

Anderson, Almedia E 

Anderson, Andrew Julius. 

Anderson, Caroline 

Anderson, David 



Chicago 



Mt. Vernon. 

Neoera 

Maiden 



Chicago 

Bock Island. 

Hanover 

Joliet 

Booneville . . 



Becks Creek 

New Boston 

Chesterfield 

Rockwood (Rand. Co.) 
Farlow's Grove 



Durand.. 



Milford.. . 
EarlviMe . 
Girard .. . 



Champaien 

Shiloh Hill 

Kewanee 

Urbana 

East St. Louis 



St. Anne.. 
Bardolph . 

Noble 

lola . 



Anderson, Eliza A 

Anderson, Ella A 

Anderson, Gustolf A. 

Anderson, Jennie Elisse 

Anderson, Laura A 



Gallatia 

Ray 

Belle Rive.. . 

Aurora 

Terre Haute. 



Liberty 

Hillsboro. . 
Galesburg. 

Leoti 

Oconee 



Hurricane 

Junction City. 



Chicago 

Galesburg... 

Cliicago 

Jacksonville 
Chicago , 



Jacksonville 

Putnam 

WoodhuU ... 
Chicago 



Cook. 



Jefferson 

Cumberland 
Bureau 



Cook 

Rock Island.. 
JoDaviess.... 

Will 

Missouri 



Shelby 

Mercer 

Macoupin . . 

Jackson 

Mercer 



Winnebago.... 
Winnebago.... 

Iroquois 

LaSalle 

Macoupin . . 

Champaign .. 

Handol h 

Henry 

Champaign .. 
St. Clair 



Kankakee 

McDonough .. 

Richland 

Clay . 



Sherburnville Kankakee 



Warsaw 



Suline 

Schuyler . .. 
Jeiferson.. . . 

Kane 

Henderson. 



Adams 

Montgomery. 

Knox 

Henry 

Shelby 



Montgomery. 
Gallatin 



Cook.... 

Knox . .. 

Cook 

Morgan. 
Cook 



Morgan . 
Putnam. 
Henry . . 
Cook.... 



Hancock , 



1876 
1876 
1889 
1885 
1873 



1882 
1862 
1880 
1849 

1867 
1891 
1891 
1887 
1852 

1881 
1881 
1891 
1867 
1869 

1884 
1886 
1866 
1874 
1891 

1879 
1881 
1880 
1890 
1866 

1867 
1885 
1880 
1890 
1863 

18.58 
1848 
1868 
18.57 
1855 

1847 
1847 
1886 
1890 
1886 

1878 
1881 
1S88 
1864 
1889 

1864 
1867 
1869 



1866 



14 G. 1880 
11 D.R.,1884 

10 

lfl;D.R.,1889 
9jD.R..1884 

101... 

9|D.R..1888 

13 D.R.,1866 
9 D.R.,1884 
9 H.D.,1858 

16 H.D..1873 

10 

IoIr. S.,1892 
11 

17 D. 1853 



9 D.R.,1891 
12 D.R..189I 



D.R.,1892 
H.D.,1868 
D.R.,1879 



D.R..1869 
D.R.,1884 



G., 1889 



G. , 1892 
H;D.',i868 

H. D.,1876 
D.R.,1887 
D.R.,1887 



H.D.,1874 



111 H.D., 1869 
15 H.D.,18.W 
10 D.R.,1876 
14 D.R.,1863 
9 H.D.,1865 



10 



H.D.,181 
D., 1852 



D.R.,18 
H.D.,18 



G., 1873 



12 G.. 
9 G., 



10 



1873 
1878 



H.D.,1872 
B.S.. 1892 

H.D..1876 



51 



PUPILS. 



Deafness. 




Consan- 
guinity OF 
Fakbnts .. 


T? "CTIT A 17 IT CI 
Xii £j M. A n ii. O • 


Cause. 


Age. 


WhoQpingjai gh 










B 








Spinal disease 


4"/^ years 
























Swede. M'd. d. m. (440).... 




9 months 














































Fever 












B 








































B 










B 








Spinal meningitis . 


4 years.. 
B 














Spinal meningitis . 

Brain fevpr 


















Spinal meningitis . 


2}4 years 
























Spasmodic cough . . 
Spinal meningitis.. 




































Gathering in head.. 
Cold 










6 mo's. ,. 


























Spinal meningitis.. 












B 








Gathering in head.. 


3 years.. 


Br 


c .... 








Sickness 


1 year... 


Sr 


























B 










B 










B 










B 










B 










B. 


2A.,lU.,2Brs..lSr 








4% years 
SVz years 
























Cold cutting teeth. 
Inflam'n ot brain . . 

Cold cutting teeth. 
Fall in water 


11 mo's.. 

years 

11 mo's.. 


2 Srs. (51) 


C .... 


Swede: m'd d. m. (1492).... 




2Srs 


C .... 






M'd d. m. (1111) 












Brain fever and 
spinal disease. . .. 


2>6 years 
B 















52 



List ot Pupils 




postoffice 
Addeess. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 
Dia- 

CHAKGE. 



■ H 



Anderson, Leroy W .. 
Anderson, Rufus W. . . 
Anderton, Charles W. 

Andre, Marcellus 

Andres, Eliza 



61 Andrews, Clarinda 

62-Andrews, Cinnie Carlyle. 



90 

91 
92 

93 
94 
95 

96 
97 
98 
99 
100 

101 
102 
103 
104 
105 

lOfi 
107 
108 
109 

110 

in 

112 
113 
114 
115 



Andrews, Melville W. 
Angelo, Francis A , 
Angle, Charles H . 



Angle, Mary E 

Armstrong, Mary. 
Arnold, Walter.... 
Asbell, Caroline. .. 
Asbell, Martha . . . . 



Asche, Amelia H 

Asehe, Anna M 

Asher, William W 

Ashman, Alford Mason. 
Ashman, David M 



Ashmead, Marquis L , 

Aske, Regina S 

Atkinson, Charles H., 

Attridge, John 

Atzger, George 



Aurand, Susan Elizabeth. 

Ausemus. Martha J 

Austin, John 

Austin, Laura E 

Austin, William L 



Bailey, Burtie . 

Bailey, Cora 

Bailey, Elzea.. , 
Bailey, Jacob.. , 
Bailey, John E . 



Baird, Austin 

Baird, Luella 

Baker, Jessie W. 
Baker, Julia A ... 
Baker, Lydia D. . 



Ballard, Hudson L. 

Ballard, Norah 

Ballard, Samuel A. 
Ballard, Volney P. . 
Barber, Prank 



Barber, James 

Barker, Charles 

Barker, James Henry. 

Baricklow, Julia 

Barlow. Alice 



Barlow, Sarah B.. 
Barnes, Julia A. . . 
Barnes, Martha M. 
Barnes, Perry 



Barnes, William H. 



Barnet, Agnes J 

Barney, Albert W 

Barrett. Michael 

Barrow, Washington. 
Barsby, Charles 



Warsaw 

Lynville , 

Charleston ... 
Shawneetown 

Hidalgo 

Centraiia 

Webster 

Lowder 

Champaign .. 

Long Creek.. 

Chicago 

Summum 

Freeport 

Coatsburg 

Murphysboro 
Danforth 

Lebanon 

Cornell 

Rantoul 

Oak Hill 

Morrisonville, 

Lanark 

Jacksonville.. 
Keenville 

Chicago 

Gardner 

Hardin 

Pekin 

Indianola 

Bridgeport ... 

LaSalle... 

Rochester 

Sullivan 

Chelsea 

White Hall.... 
Chelsea 

Boody 

Farmington .. 

Belmont 

Ashmore 

Coatsburg.. ,. 

Danville 

Williamsburg 

Girard 

Millersburg .. 

Blandinsville. 

Augusta 

Peoria 

Chicago 

Bucklem 



Hancock . . . 

Morgan 

Coles 

Gallatin. ... 

Jasper 

Marion 

Hancock... 
Sangamon. 
Champaign 



Macon..' 

Cook 

Fulton 

Stephenson 

Adams 

Jackson 

Iroquois 

St. Clair .... 
Livingston . 
Champaign. 

Lake 

Christian... 

Carroll 

Morgan 

Wayne 

Cook 

Grundy 

Calhoun .. .. 

Tazewell 

Vermilion . . 

Lawrence... 

LaSalle 

Sangamon.. 
Moultrie 

Will 

Greene 

Will. 

Macon 

Fulton !!!!!! 

Wabash 

Coles 

Adams 

Vermilion .. 

Mercer 

Macoupin .. 
Mercer 

M'^Donough 

Hancock 

Peoria 

Cook 

Winnebago 



1868 
1866 
1861 
1860 
1864 

ISfilj 
1891 
18671 
1875! 
1867 

1861 
1877 
1870 
1882 
1882 

1874 
1874 
1880 
1883 
1875 

1851 
1878 
1869 
1859 
1889 

1887 
1858 
1886 
1881 
1881 

1882' 
I877I 
18811' 
1847 
1857 

1879 
I 74 
1879 
18191 
1879 

1850j 
1889: 
18501 
18501 
1880| 

1880 
1883 
1887 
1859 
1873 

1867 
1818 
1882 
1847 

1848 

1874 
18 7 
]8no 
1887 
1848 



D.B.,1884 
H.D.,1876 
G., 1866 
D.R.,1862 
D., 1864 

D.R.,1862 

b 'R.^isTC 
D.R.,1883 
G., 1878 



9G.. 
10 G , 

10 D.R. 

11 D.. 
11 D.R. 



1871 

ms 

1879 
1883 



10 



D.R.,1881 
D.R.,1879 



D.B.,1887 

H.D.1S57 
D.R. 1887 
H.D.1882 
H.D.18«9 



D.R. 1862 



lljD.R, 1884 
lOlD.K. 1886 
ISiD.R. 1884 
lOlD.R. 1853 
12 1 D.R. 1861 



D.R. 1838 

G. 1885 
R.S. 1883 
D.R. 1853 
D.R. 1886 

H. D.1857 



H.D.1857 
H.D.1857 
14 H.D.1889 

13 G. 1892 

13 H.D.1892 
26! D.R. 1891 
14iH.D.1867 

14 D.R. 1879 



D.R. 1876 
H.D.1849 
D.R. 1891 
H.D.1854 

H.D.1849 

D.R. 1! 
R.S. 1878 



D.R. 1854 



53 



— Continued. 



56 
57 
58 

59: 

60 



65 

66 
67 I 
68 
69 I 
70 

71 
72 
73 
74 
75 

76 
77 
78 
79 



88 1 

89 ' 
9U 

91 
92 

93] 
94 
95 1 

96 
97 

98 , 
99 

100 , 

101 
102 ' 

103 : 

104 
105 ' 

106 
107 

108 
109 I 

110 

111 

112 : 
113 : 

114 
115 1 



Deafness. 


Deaf Relatives. 


Consan- 
guinity OF 
Paeents .. 


Remarks. 


Cause. 


Age. 


|b 


Br Sr 






R 


Br Sr 
















iDn&iiini3.tioii n6E0 


"R 






M'd d. m. (21181 


■R 








iDflainniSitioii braiin 










Spin3;l inBDin^itis. . 
IntGrinitteiit fover. 






























T> 


Sr 










Br 


Cs. . . 


M'd d m flfi'^Sl 


Spinal meningitis . . 








B 






vJ U l i±la.LL , 111 \X \A* 1X1. V LJO 1 ) t a 






Twin Sr. (70) 








Twin Sr (69) 








■R 


Sr. (72) 




( -rPr m SI n 










frPriTmn ■ nn'rl H m 


Spinal meningitis.. 
















English 






























^ years. . 


2d C 




M'H li m (11 S.";) 












■R 










■R 




















Tl 


Br. (85)» Sr (84) 2d C (2005) 
2 Brs. (83), '(85). 2d c' (2005) 








"D 








■R 














Spinal meiiingiti - . 
Spinal meniugitis . 

P.ntH 










U* years. 












M'd a woman not deaf — . 




B 


Cs 






B 




3d C 

m Cs 








"Rr /QI 1 n rV £1 




iiemiitent le ver . . , . 


















bpmai meningitis . 










B 


9 Tira /QQl /QQ^ 


















B 


2 Brs. (96). (97) 

9 Rye; /Qfil lQQ\ 








B 


















R« 






Throat disease 










Inflam. of brain 


















Typhoid fever 






















B 


























M'd d. m., became teacher 




B.. ...... 






Brain fever 








M'd d. m. (261) 


































5>6 years 






M'd d. m. (319) 



—6 D. D. 



54 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



tostoffice 
Addkess. 



County rp 
Kesidence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 

Dis- 
charge. 



116 
117 
11- 
119 
120 

121 

122 
123 
124 
125 

126 
127 
128 
12SI 

lau 

131 
132 

133 
134 
130 

136 
137 
138 
139 
140 

141 

14 

143 

144 

145 

146 
147 
14H 
149 
150 

151 
152 
153 
154 
155 

156 
157 
158 

159 
160 

161 
162 
163 
164 
165 

166 
167 
168 
169 
170 

171 

172 
173 
174 
175 



Bartley, Alexander 

Bartoo, Clara 

Bartoo. Harriet M 

Bates. Eva M 

Baugness, Thomas W. 

Baumann, Freida 



Bayless, Matilda C. 

Bayue, 8arah 

Beaman, Henry A . 
Beamau, Theodore. 



Beau, Ellen Sarah 

Beard, Florence A 

Beard, Mary Rebecca. 

Beardsley, John 

Baubien, Julia C 



Bfaver, Williara 

Beeht, Annie Minnie C. W. 

Beohtloft, Peter 

Beek, Constance A 

Beck, Mary E 



Becker, Elizabeth. 
Beckham, Stephen. 
Beeley, Martha H.. 

Beleke, Charles 

Belcke William 



Bell, Alva Earl..., 
Bell. John Henry . 

Bell, Joseph 

Bell, Louisa V 

Bellm, Joseph P.. 



Beltz, Liilu 

Benson, George M. 

Benton, Melissa 

Berger, John 

Berner, Charles 



Bernstein, Joseph. 
Berry, Charles W. . 

Berry, Ellen 8 

Berry, Mary 

Berry, Kebeeca 



Betsinger. Emeline. 

Bevan, Martha 

Bickford, Margaret. 



Billerbeck. (Joni ad W. 
Birkland. Gertrude 



Bishop, George R. 
Bishop, Samuel S. 
Bivins, William P. 
Rixler, Harry E. .. 
Bixler, Joseph B. . 



Bjorquest. August.. .. 
Bjoi quest, Frederick. 
Bjorquest, Lenora N.. 

Black, Samuel H 

Blackman, Harry 



Blake, Nellie.... 
Blasi, Carmine. . 
Blattman, John. 
Blevins, Eurith.. 
Blish, Addle 



Blue Island. 
Plainfleld. .. 



Ava 

Mi lersburg.. 

Chicago 



Mt. Pleasant , 

Savanna , 

Oregon 



Mattoon . . 

Ridott 

Xenia 

Stockton , 
Chicago . . 



Freeport 

Peru 

O'Fallon 

Bethany 

Williamsville. 

Beardstown.. 

Okaw 

Arenz villa 

Peoria 



Clavton 

Streator 

Quincy 

Osceola 

Grant Fork. 

Taylorville.. 
Rantoul — 

Bushnell 

Tremont 

Chicago 



Brighton. 



Peoria 

Braidwood.. 
Warsaw 



Ciillom . 
Morris . 



Ogle Station.. 

Groveland 

Shelby ville..., 
Forsy the . . . . . 
Gardner 



Monmouth . 
Clinton 



Knoxville.. 
Marseilles.. 



Clayton 

Chicago 

McHenry 

Grand View.. 
Wethersfleld., 



Cook. 
Will.. 



Jackson. 
Mercer . . 



Cook. 



Iowa (state) 

Carroll 

Ogle 



Coles 

Stephenson .. 

Marion 

JoDaviess — 
Cook 



Stephenson.. 

LaSal'e 

St. Clair 

Moultrie 

Sangamon . . 



Cass 

Washington. 

Cass 

Peoria 



Adams . . 
LaSalle... 
Adams... 

Stark 

Madison. 



Christian 

Champaign ... 
MoDonough.. 

Tazewell 

Cook 



Macoupin. 



Peoria... . 

Will 

Hancock. 



Livingston.. 
Grundy 



Ogle 

Tazewell.. . 

Shelby 

Macon 

Grundy 



Warien.. 
DeWitt.. 



Knox 

LaSalle.. 



Adams — 

Cook 

Mc Henry- 
Edgar 

Henry 



1868 
1864 
1867 
1890 
1861 

1889 

1852 
1848 
1867 
1871 

1874 
1877 
188« 
18.54 
1869 

1860 
1879 
1880 : 
1880 
1867 

1877 
1848 
1852 
1879 
1854 

1889 
1889 
1862 
1849 
1879 

1880 
1877 
1859 
1873 



1890 
1855 
1862 
1850 
1850 

1867 
1872 
1865 

1886 
1890 

1866 
1853 
18t.2 
1887 
1884 

1875 
1879 
1883 
1852 
1871 

1870 
1889 
1867 
1876 
1865 



D.R. 1879 
G. 1877 
G. 1878 



H.D.1870 



D. 18.54 
D.K. 1849 
D.E. 1876 
D. 11. 1884 12 

D.K.,1S81 
D.R, 1884 



H.D.,18fi4 
D.R ,1876 



10 H.D..18C9 
9 D.B.,18^fi 
]0|D.li.,18'.2 

10, D.R.,1886 

11, H.D.,187; 



lO'G.. 
271D.R. 
10 G.. 

9;d.r. 

10 D.R. 



1891 
1850 
1866 
1886 
1864 



13;D.R.,1804 
13 H.D.,1855 
8D.R.,1890 

9 D.R.,1892 
9 R.S.,1879 
9 H.D.,lx69 
14D.K.,1881 
18 D.R.,1891 



G., 1865 

G. , 18?3 

H. D.,1858 
H.D.,1860 



10 H.D.,1869 
12H.D.,1 
21 G., 1806 



11 



22 H,D ,1870 
10 H.D ,1865 



H.D.,1872 



H.D.,1886 

D.R.,1886 
D.R.,1891 



11 D.R.,1853 
13 D.R.,1875 



H.D..1870 



D.R.,1876 
D.R.,1884 
D.R.,1879 



— Continued. 



55 

















Deafness 






£;2§ 




s 

H 






Deaf Relatives. 


W H S 
H Z 2= 
t; w (► 

1^? 
: o 

- It) 


Bemabes. 


SI 

a 


Cause. 


Age. 



1181 



123 
124 
125 

12(; 
327 
128 
129 
130 

131 
132 
133 
134 
135 

136 
137 
138 
139 
140 

141 
142 
143 
144 



146 
147 
148 
149 
150 

151 
1.52 
153 
154 
155 

156 
157 
158 

159 
160 

161 



166 ' 
167 

168 , 

169 1 

170 : 

171 \ 

172 i 
173 
174 

175 : 



Pits 


11 mo's 






German 


Inflam. of brain 


6 mo's. . . 
B 


Sr. (118) 






Sr. (117) 




M."d d. m. (2027) 


Spinal nienineitis.. 
Gatliering in head. 










2 years 








Bemain'd deaf after 
fit of vomiting.... 
Cholera infantum 


7 years 






German 












B 








Gathering in head. 


9 mo's. ., 
B 


Br. (125) 






Br. (124) 






Scarlet fever 


18 mo's 






M'd. a man who hears.... 


Sickness 


9 mo's. . ■ 












2d Cs 




Sickness 


6 mo's 




M'd d. m. (1645) 


Scarlet fever 


4 years 






M'd speaking man 








Cs 




Spinal meningitis . . 
Cold 


22 mo's 




Cs. .. 


German 








Spinal meningitis 










Quinine. . . 


4 mo's 








Spinal meningitis.. 


6 years 








B . 










B 






German; m'dd. m. (1766). 
G^erman 




B 


Fr (140) Mr (186) .... 




Scarlet fever 


2 years 






German; m'dd. m. (186). 1 
son h'rs; 1 son d.&d.(139). 


Catarrhal fever 








B 


















Inflammationbrain 
Spinal meningitis. 

Spinal meningitis,. 










4 years 






Get man 


2 years 






M'd d m (886) 










Sick and quinine. .. 
Spinal meningitis.. 
Brain fever 


3 years 






M'd d m (991) 


13 years. 


Half Sr. (1663) 












Sicknes*^ 


\M> years 






Pole 




3 Srs (153) (154) (155) 




M'd d m 




J5 


2 Si-'i (1'i4l'(15'>) Rr (1,52) 




M'd d m (1919) 




B 


Li yjVT^, IIUt/, V''-'''/» J-*! I \ ^■'Jl~^ 1 1 • 

2 Srs. (153), (155), Br. (152) , 




M'd d. m. >2076) 




B 


2 Srs (153) (151) Br (152) 




M'd d m (1823) 




B 






German 




B 
















M'd d. m. ; became teacher 


Intermittent fever. 
























M'dd. m. (1042) 


Dropsy on brain. . . 


2 years.. 


Cs. (486) 




M'd d. m. (373) 








Scarlet fever 




















Typhoid fever 


2 years.. 
B 


















B 








Scarlet fever 




















Scarlet f'^ver 


V/i years 








Brain fever 


















Disease of ear 


1 year. .. 

















56 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Addeess. 



County of 
Kesidence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 
Dia- 

CHAEGE 



17(i 
177 
178 
179 
180 



Bloom, Abraham., 

Bloom, Annie 

Blout, Joshua 

Blower, Jennie E. 
Blower, John 



181 Blower, Sophia. 
182|Blume. John M. 



183 
184 
185 

186 



Boaz, Melissa J 

Boden, Augustin J. 
Boedeker, CarlC... 



Bogg, Emily J. 



187 Bohart, Fannie Lucile... 

188 Bollman, Minnie D 

18;» Bottinghouse, Margaret. 
190 Bolton, Annie E 



191 Booker, George M. L. W. 

192 Boone, James R 

19:i Boro, Mary 

194 Borinatein, William 

195 Borst, George D 



Boiucke, Michael 

Bostwiek. Charles H. 

Boswell. Mary F 

Boudreau, Marois.... 
Bowlby, Lillie M 



Bowser, Lessie 

Boyd, Elizabeth 

Boyd, Maggie M 

Boyd, Mary Therina. 



196 
197 
198 
199 
200 

201 

202 

•m 

204 

205 Boyd, Thomas 



200 Boyd, William 

207 Boyle. Cornelius.. 

208 Boylon. William T 

209 Boyles, Adeline... 

210 Bradley, Charles.. 



Brady, William Henry 

Bi agg, Thomas 

Brand, Clara 

Brantzel. Hal 

Brashar, Edwin A 



Brashar, Fannie C . 



211 

212 
213 
214 
215 

216 



217 Brashar, George Roy. 

218 1 Brashar, Sallie J 

219 Brashar, William T . . . 



220 

221 
222 
22 i 
224 
225 



Brauer, Ernest . 



B'rausch, Nicholas . . . 

Brave, Erne-st D 

Breaton, Oscar 

Breden, Francis M... 
Breedlove, Gertrude 



226 Breese, Sidney Max . 

227 Breining, Frederick . 

228 Brennan, Michael 

229iJjreysacher, George. 
230iBriggs, Clarissa B... 



Chicago 

Groveland.... 

EUisville 

Pontiac 

Griggsville. .. 
Springfield ... 

Bushnell 

Olney 

Stone Church 

Havana 

Chicago 

Litchfield 

Grayville 

Peoria 

Paloma 

Pekin 

Rock I-flaud.. 
Chicago .. 

Chicago 

Maysville 

Canton 

Papineau 

Green Valley. 

Nokomis 

Avon 

Litchfield 

Sparta 

Avon 

Litchfield 

Cairo 

Peoria 

Elkton 

Xenia 

Ottawa 

Sullivan 

Waukegan . .. 
White Hall ... 
Rock Island . . 

Rock Island.. 

Chicago 

Rock Island.. 

Chicago 

Chicago 

New Douglas 

Chicago 

Bunker Hill.. 
Jacksonville . 

Hinsdale 

Mendota 

Wilmington .. 

Marshall 

Waynesvillo.. 



Cook 

Tazi^well 

Pulton 

Livingston.... 

Pike 

Sanfeamon 

McDonough. . 

Richland 

Washington.. 

Mason 

Cook 

Montgomery. 

White 

Peoria 

Adams 

Tazewell 

Rook Island.. 
Coou 

Cook 

Clay 

Fulton 

Iroaudis 

Tazewell 

Montgomery. 

Fulton 

Montgomery- 
Randolph 

Fulton 

Montgomery.. 

Alexander 

Peoria 

Crawford 

Clay 

LaSalle 

Moultrie 

Lake 

Greene 

Rock Island.. 

Rock Island.. 



Cook 

Rook Island.. 

Cook 

Cook 

Madison 

Cook... 

Macoupin 

Morgan 

DuPage 

LaSalle 

Will 

Clark 

DeWitt 



1889 
1850 
1888 
1888 

1860 
1879 
1869 
1860 
1884 

1853 



1890, 
1808 
1877 

1872 
1852 
1877 
1886 
1882 

1892 
1855 
1864 
1882 
1878 

1891 
1853 
1881 
1883 
1853 

1885 
1866 
1876 
1864 
1887 

1883 
1869 
1879 
1891 
1849 

1882 

1888 

1871 
1886 

1882 

1879 
1877 
1876 
1859 
1867 

1890 
1870 
1879 
1882 

1848: 



G., 1888 



H.D.,1858 
D.R.,1891 
D.R,,1891 

H.D.,18G7 
D.R.,1 
K. S.,1876 
H.D ,1868 



H.D.,1863 
D.R.,1891 



r).R.,1886 
G. , 1883 

G., 1881 
G., 1865 
D.R.,1880 
D R.,1887 
D.R.,1891 



H.D.,1859 
D.R..1878 
D.R.,188S 
D.R.,1884 



H.D.,1863 



R.S.,1889 
G., 1863 



H.D ,1874 
D R ,r 
H.D.,1S72 



D.R.,1891 
D.R.,1880 
D.R.,1891 



H.D.,1859 
G. , 1892 



DR., 1876 



D., 1892 

DR., 1887 
D.R.,1891 

G., ir- 

D.R.,1860 
R.S.,1875 



H.D.,1871 
H,D.,1891 



H.D..1850 



57 



— Continued. 



Deafness. 


Deaf Relatives. 


Consan- 
guinity OF 
Parents .. 


Remarks. 


Cause. 


Age. 


Concussion brain. . 
Spinal meningitis.. 


13 years. 
6 weeks. 
B 


















Sore eyes, sore ears 


1 year... . 
B 






















vTt3 1 lUdiLlf LLi U. llictll VV liU U. X o 


Lung fever 




















B 






M'd d. m 


Spinal meningitis 








(jr6rrQ3,n, fr. B'licl g". fr. hRrd 

Art ' /"I H m fl/lfH 1 C(~\n VtaoT*a 
IIL U U.. Hi. {I'iV/f 1 b<.)Ll xl(:3dil Of 

1 sond. and d. (139) 












B 
















Scrofula 










Spinal meningitis 








CiIl£^lXoLl, 1 1 1 U. U., 1 1 1 \i.ifOo) * • • 

MVI d. m. (383) 


















M'H H m (Q171 










Tf Q 1 inn 




B 






T-I pV^t'OTTT 










( -r PT*in 51 Tt 




B 






Pole 














B 






MVI rl tn nQfiO) 
























B 










B 


Br. (-205) 




OCULOll XL Inli, ill \XKl.LLL,\.Laiijf 


Diphtheria 


5 years.. 
8 mo's. .. 
B 


Br. (206) 






Br 








Sr. (202) 










Sr. (203) 






Scarlet fever 








TVT'rl r\ m M9fil 


Typhoid fever 












B 










B 








Spinal meningitis.. 
Cold 


4 years 






T * 1 


3 mo's. ., 








Spinal meningitis.. 
Sickness 








GrerEflaii 


6 mo's 








1 year 






M'd d. m. (958). 3 children 
d. and d. (216). (217), (219).. 


Salt in ears 


3 years.. 

8 mo's. .. 

10 years. 
B 


Fr. (215), Mr. (958), 2 Brs. 
(2171, (219)2U., 1 A 






Fr. (215), Mr. (958), Br. (219), 
Sr. (216) 
















Fr- (215), Mr. (958), Sr. (216). 
Br. (219), 2U., 1 A 


























Spinal meningitis.. 








Get man, m'd d. m. (358)... 










B 










B 


















Typhoid fever 












3 years.. 


C. (1266) 






Brain fever 










Hydrocephalus 











176 
177 
178 
179 
180 

181 
182 

183 
184 
185 

186 

187 
188 
189 
190 

191 

192 
193 
194 
195 

19G 
197 
1<)8 
199 
200 

201 
202 

203 
204 
205 

206 
2(1' 
208 
209 
210 

211 
212 
213 
214 
215 

216 

217 

218 
219 

220 

^21 
222 
223 
224 
225 

226 
227 
228 
229 
230 



58 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Addeess. 





Ad- 




^« 


County of 


MIT 


TED 


Mode OF 
Dis- 






p> 


charge. 


















a> 




■ "? 


DeWitt' 


1876 


10 


H.D.,1888 


11 


DeKalb 


1891 1 


7 




9 


Oook 


1875 


10 


G . . 1887 


12: 


Scott 


18i7 


12 


H.D..1855 


4 


Hamilton 


1864 


12 


H.D.,1874 




Ford 

Cook 


1870 


11 


D.K.,188U 


4 


1891 


10 




1 


Menard 


1846 


12 


H.D.,1853 


6 




1876 


9 


H.D.,1889 


n 


Marshall 


1883 


16 


D.R.,1891 


7 


Menard 


1849 


10 


H.D„1859 


11 


McDonough. , 


187C 


10 


D.R.,1888 


11 


Efflngtiam. . . . 
MoDonojgh.. 


1891 






1 


1877 


8 


Ex.. 1886 


9 


Will 


1856 


11 


H.D.,1861 


6- 


Washington.. 


1879 


11 


D.R.,188() 


6 


LaSalle 


1873 


10 


D.R.,1884 


10- 


187. 


15 


H.D. 1872 


\ 




1846 


19 


hl!Dl!l853 


I 




1876 


11 


D.R., 1884 


5 


Madison 


1849 


23 


H.D. ,1852 


■2 


AT p T^nn nn 


1876 


14 






Kane 


1873 


10 


D R., 18811 


9 


Madison 


1849 


311 


H.D.,1852 


2 


Adams 


1865 


14 


H.D. ,1876 


11 


McDonough . . 


1858 


15 


H.D.,1865 


G. 


Moultrie .. 


1873 


10 


D.R., 1886 


10 


Stephenson... 


1859 


]7 


H.D. ,1863 


5 


Christian ., , 


1887 


9 




i 


McLean 


1859 


21 


D.R.,1860 


1 


Hancock 


1883 


19 


H.D. ,1889 


4 




1884 


12 








1889 






3 




1867 


15 




2- 


White 


1869 


17 


D.R.,1880 


5 


White 


1869 


19 


D.R.,lS8n 


5 


Winnebago . . 


1867 


20 


G., 1872 


5 


Whiteside 


1862 


12 


H D 1867 


6 


Morgan 


1857 


13 


H.D.,1863 


4 


1857 


15 


H.D. ,1863 


4 


Macoui)in .... 


1859 


8 


H.D. ,1869 


7 


Cook 


1858 


13 


H.D. ,1862 




Peoria . 


1888 
1888 


9 




4 




7 




4 




1889 


10 




1 


Livingston . . . 
Livingston . . . 


1863 


16 


D R.,1863 


1 


1863 


9 


H.D. ,1873 


7 




1877 


8 


G 1888 


10 


McDonough... 


1880 


9 


D!k.,lS87 


3 


Douglas 


1857 


14 


H.D.,186.i 


6 


Knox 


1878 


13 


G., 1887 


7 


St. Clair 


1879 


8 


D.R.,1891 


8 




1857 


10 


H.D.,]86li 


2 


Cook 


1883 


14 


D.R.,1891 


7 




1891 


16 




1 


Cook 


1882 


16 


D.R.,18S6 


5 


Mason 


1855 


11 


H.D.,)866 


10 




1884 


11 


D.R.,1887 


1 


Cook 


1891 


12 




1 




1862 


10 


H.D.,i872 





231 
232 
233 
234 
235 

236 
237 
238 
239 
240 

241 

242 
243 
243 
245 

246 
247 
218 
249 
250 

251 

252 
253 
254 
255 

256 
257 
258 
259 

2(;o 

261 
262 
263 
264 
265 

266 
267 
268 
269 
2 0 

271 
272 
273 
274 
275 



Bright, Ada 

Bright, George.. . . 
Brimble, Alfred H. 

Brisbin, John 

Bristol, Aurelia 



Brittell. Willard 

Bromfleld, Gertrude E. 

Brooks, Charles G 

Brooks, Laui-a J 

Brooks, Philetus 



Brooks, Tip 

Brown, Anson C .. 
Brown, Catlierine. 
Brown, Charles H 
Brown, Daniel C . . 



Brown, Edward 

Brown, George A. .. 
Brown, Johanna C. 
Brown, Leander . . . . 
Brown, Lee Robert. 



Farmer City. 
South Grove 

Chicago 

Naples 

Lovilla 



Paxton 

Chicago 

Petersburg. 

Makanda 

Sparland . . . 



Gooding's Grove 



Brown, Louise 

B own, Mary H 

Brown, May H 

Brown. Polly A 

Brown, Sarah Jane. 



Brown, Thomas J 

Brown, Thomas J 

Brown, William Thomas. 

Browning, Hugh 

Browning, Sarah J 



Bruegger, Peter . 
Bruick, Michael. . 
Bruns, Frieda. . . 
Bryan, Martha J . 
Bryant, Lory 



Bryant, Margaret 

Buchan, Champion L. 
Buchanan. Hannah . . 

Buckley, John C 

Buckley, Lydia 



Buckley, Stephen P 

Buel, Mary B 

Bunch, William J 

Bunting. Ella Evangeline , 
Buioh, Ernest 



276 Burd, Hester E .... 
277'Burt, Phoebe M.... 

278 Buren, Annie 

279 Burger. Mary 

280 Burget, Francis M. 



281 

282 
283 
281 
28; 

286 
287 
288 
289 
290 



Burgland. Amanda.. 

Burke, Bridget 

Burke, Ellen 

Burns, James 

Burns, Patrick 



Burns. Wilfred 

Burrell, Sarah 

Burson, Joseph E 

Busehick. Caroline May 
Buschick, Catherine 



Industry... 
Hampton . . 
Freeport.. . 
Edinburg. 
Heyworth . 



Nauvoo.. 
Chicago. 



Lincoln.. 
Roland.. 



Roland 

Rockford 

Lyndon 

Jacksonville. 



Girard . . 
Chicago 
Peoria .. 
Chicago. 
Handy .. 



Chatswort.h i Living 

Chats worth 

Chicago 

Blandinsville . . . 
Brushy Pork. . . 



Galesburg 

East St. Louis 

lliinoistown 

Chicago 



—Continued. 



59 



Deafness. 



Cause. 



Age. 



Deaf Relatives. 



i-rtO O 
(►do 
w 5 ^ 

1^ 2 5° 

."o ' 
■ ll) 



Remarks. 



231 Brain fever. .. 

232, 

233 Scarlet fever. 

234|Mumps 

2351 



9 mo's . . 
2 years. 
8 years. 
4 years. 



M'd d. m. (586). 



English. 



I 

23f)iFever.. 
23; I 



239 
240 

241 
242 
213 
214 
245 

2)() 
24« 
248 
249 
250 

251 

252 
253 
254 
255 

25(i 
257 
258 
259 
260 



Gathering in head. 



Br. (241). 



2 years. 

B 

B 

1 year. . 
6 years. 



B Br. (238) 

jB Br. (244). Sr. (252). 



U. 



M'd d. m. 



,B Br. (242), Sr. (252). 

Measle... 4 years. 



Measles. 
Croup .. 



M'd d. m.(1042). 
Colored 



B 

18 mo's. 



Brain fever. 



B 

B 

lis years 

B 

1 year. .. 



Sr. (254) 

2 Bros. (242), (244). 



Sr. (251). 



B. 



Gather ing in head. il8 mo's. 

Scarlet fever jl4 mo's. 

1 year. . 



261 Typhoid fever 

262 Measles 

263 Typhoi i fever 

264 Measles 

265 Hydrocephalus 



Fever.. 



Gathering in ears. 



266 
267 
268 
259 
270 

271 

27i 
273 
274 
275 

276 
277 
278 
279 
280 



2S1 Brain fever 

282 Spinal meningitis. 



14 mo's., 
2 years., 

5 years. 

6 mo's. . 
1 year. . 



B 

5 years. 

B 

1 year. . 
1 year. . 



2 2d Cs. . 
Sr. (266). 

Sr. (265). 



B. 



Scarlet fever 2 years 

Spinal disease 'iVs years 

Scarlet fever 8 mo's. 

Dropsy of brain ... 10 mo's 



Br. (271). Sr. (270) . 
2 Bros. (269). (270). 

Br. (269), Sr. (270) . 



Scarlet fever 



B 

B 

5 mo's. 



Sr. (279). 
Sr. (277) . 
3 Cs 



2 mo's. 



23-2 years 



- oarlet fever. 



283 
284 
285 

286 
287 

288^Measles 3 mo's. .. |Br , 

2H9 Genera! weakness. i9 years.. ISr. 290) . 
290 Fever 9 mo's. ..I 



M'd a woman who hears 
M'd d. m. (672) 



Coloreit 



Cs... 



M'd d. m 

M'd d. m. (448) .. 
M'd d. m. (1005) . 



German, m'd d. m. (Ill) 
German 



M'd d. m. (1417) , 



M'd d. m. (1699), 2d (1553) 



M'd d. m 

IVL'd d. m. (1986) . 



M'd d. m. 



M'd d. m. (1294).. 

Swede 

German 

M'd d. m. (1165) . 



Swede 
Irish . . 



M'd d. m. 12001) 



M'd d. m , I deaf child 

German, m'd d.m.i d'fch'ld 



60 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Address. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 
Dis- 

CHAEGE. 



291 

292 
'293 
294 
295 

296 
297 
298 
299 
300 

301 

302 
303 
304 
305 

306 
307 
308 
309 

310 

311 
312 
313 
314 
315 

316 
317 
318 
319 
320 

321 
322 
323 
324 
325 

326 
327 
328 
329 
330 

331 

332 
.3.33 
334 
335 

336 
337 
338 
339 
340 

341 

342 
343 
344 
345 

346 
347 
348 
349 

5 0 



Busley, Mary 

Butler, Genetta 

Butler, William V 

Byran, Minnie Susan. 
Byrnes, Catherine 



Cadle, Virginia E 

Cadore. Mary 

Cadwallader, Sarah E. 

Cadwell. Minnie 

Cahill, William 



Caillouette, William . 

Calhoun, Sar.'li II 

Callaghan, John O... 

Cain, Isaiali 

Cain, Loren E 



Cairnes, Agnes 

Calvin, Leander 

Camenisch, Christine. 
Campbell, tdward E.. 

Campbell, William 



Campbell. William I 

Cannon. John J 

Cantrall. Sarah E 

Carico, Member Ann 

Carlock. Francis Edward. 

Carlson, Edin Emanuel. . . 

Carpenter, Arthur , 

Cai'penter, Clarence , 

Carpenter, Harriet E 

Carpenter, James S 

Carr, Milton W 

Carrier, George W , 

Carrier, Thomas E , 

Carringer, William E 

Carroll, Almari 



Carroll, John 

C .rroU, John P 

Carseadin, Emma , 

Cartee, May B 

Carter, George H. . 



Carter, John E 

Cartwright, Catherine. 
(!artwright, Joseph H. 

Cary, John 

Cary, Urincis V 



Cashman, Margaret A. 

Cass. Granger P 

Casselman, Chailes R. 

Casteel, James 

Caudle, Mary J 



Caudry, Clayton B 

Chadwick. Julia A 

Chamberlain, Grace... 
Chamberlain, Isaac N. 
Chamberlain, Rufus... 



Chambers, Jessie C 
Chambers. Sarah ... 

Chauy, Prank 

Chapin, Sylvia L 



Charles. William D . 



Waterloo 

Carhnville 

Jeffersonville.. 

Versailles 

Metcalf 



Meredosia.. . 

Watseka 

Ipava 

Prairie City. 
Danville 



Beaver ville. 
Plymouth... 
Chicago .. .. 
Stonefort. .. 
Chicago 



Braidwood . 
Alhambra... 

LaSalle 

Mattoon .. . 



Lowder. 



Alden 

Perry 

Chincapin 

Lawreneeville , 
Douglas 



Chicago .. 

Orland 

Pittsfleld. 

Wales 

Peoria 



Sparta 

Lewiston . 



Wataga . . 
Waverly.. 



Austin 

Waverly .. .. 
A^onmouth . 
Thompson . 
Chicago 



Snow Flake. 
Olney 



Earlville. 
Sterling . 



Ottawa 

Amboy 

Carbondale ... 
Murphysboro. 
Chesterfield... 



Litchfield... 

Chicago 

Three Oaks 
Chillieothe.. 
Momence. .. 



Savanna 

Magnolia. .. 
Shelbyville . 
Mattoon 



Sparland 



Monroe 

Macoupin ... 
Williamson. . 

Brown 

Edgar 



Morgan 

Iroquois 

Pulton 

McDonough.. 
Vermilion 



1860 
1884 
1876 
1890 
1879 

1863 
1883 
1858 
1877 
1860 

1879 
1880 
1871 
1875 
1877 

1S73 
1852 
1876 
1876 

1875 

1875 
1818 
1872 
1874 
1891 

1889 
1891 

1888 
1858 

Peoria 1870 



Iroquois. 
Hancock. 

Cook 

Saline .. . 
Cook 



Will 

Madison . 
LaSalle . . 
Coles 



Sangamon 



MoHenry 

Pike 

Sangamon 

Lawrence 

Union 



Cook. 

Pike '. 
Ogle 



Randolph. 
Pulton 



Knox 

Morgan . 



Cook.... 
Morgan. 
Warren.. 
Carroll.. 
Cook.... 



Franklin., 
Richland , 



LaSalle 

Whiteside ... 



LaSalle ., 

Lee 

Jackson 



Macoupin 

Montgomery. 

Cook 

Michigan 

Peoria 

Kankakee 



1866 
1878 
1878 
1874 
1863 

1878 
1865 
1875 
1S73 
187S 

1887 
1868 
1867 
1867 
1866 

1872 
186it 
1868 
1880 
1863 

1883 
1867 
1879 
1855 
1877 



Carroll 1862 

Putnam 1859 

Shelby |1869 

Coles 11876 



Marshall 118741 13 



H.D,.1865 



D.R.,1880 



D.B., 1886 
D.R.,1872 



H.D.,1886 
D.R.,1879 
D.B.,1861 

D.R.,1887 
D.R.,1886 
D.R.,1881 
D.R.,1879 
Ex., 1886 

D.R.,1881 
H.D.,1856 
G., 1890 
G., 1881 

D.R.,1876 

G., 1878 
D.R.,1850 
D.R.,1884 
D.B.,1876 



D.R.,1891 



H. D.,1865 
D.R.,1874 

G., 1877 
B.S.. 1884 
R.S..1884 
G., 1884 

G. , 1873 

D.R.,1879 

H. D.,1875 
D.R.,1876 
R.S.,1879 
D.R.,18^il 



DR., 
H.D. 
H.D. 
H D. 
H.D. 

H.D. 
D.R., 
R.S. 
D.R.: 
H.D. 

R.S. 
H.D. 
D.R. 
H.D. 
D.R. 

H.D. 
D.R., 
H.D. 
G., 



D.R.,1887 



1891 
,1874 
,1874 
,1870 
,1869 

,1878 
1862 
1872 
1891 
,1867 

,1885 
,1870 
1880 
,1860 
1885 

,1869 
1861 
,1870 



— Coutiuued. 



61 



2til 
292 
293 
294 
295 

296 
297 
298 
299 
301) 

:-;oi 
302 
3t)3 
304 
3U5 

306 
307 
308 
309 

310 

311 
312 
313 
314 
315 

816 
317 
318 
319 
320 

321 
322 
323 
324 
325 

226 
327 
328 
329 
330 

331 

332 
333 
334 
335 

336 
337 
338 
339 
340 

341 

342 
343 
344 
345 

346 
347 
348 
349 

350 



Deafness. 


Deaf Belatives. 


IT)0 O 

t> c o 

W M !a 

M 

>^^> 


Eemaeks. 


Cause. 


Age. 




B 








Measles 












B 




















B 


















Brain fever 










Fever 






















B 


















Brain fever 






























Inflammation brain 
Spinal meningitis.. 


3 years.. 


2d C 










Irish 


B 








Spinal meningitis . 
Swelling in head. .. 
















M'd d. m. (652). Became a 
teacher in Colo. In^t 


B 






Spinal meningitis.. 
Cold 


14 years. 
















B 


5Cs 


























Cutting teeth 


1^6 years 
B 


























Scarlet fever 


SVo years 






M'd d. m. (U5) 








































Brain fever 








M'd d. m. (448) 


Scrofula 


1 year. .. 

3 years.. 
B 


Br. (326) 




M'd d. m. (1719>. 1 d. aridd. 
child 


Fright 








Br 




Md. d. m. (1882) 


Catarrh 


10 or 12 y 
























M'd. d. m. ((1910) 
















Br. (333) 


















B 








Inflammation brain 




















B 


C 








B 


C 


C. .. 














3 mo's. .. 
14 years. 


?. Cs 1 


M'd. a man who hears 


Spinal meningitis.. 
















3 years.. 


12d C 














S pinal meningitis . . 


2>6 years 






M'd. d. m. (2003) 


















Quinine 


21 years. 








Spinal meningitis . . 






M'd. d. m. became teacher 
in Pennsylvania Inst — 


Gathering in head. 









62 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffce 
Addbess. 



County oe 
Kbsidence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 
Dis- 

CHAEGE. 



Charlet, William 

Charltou. Francis G . 
Ohenowith, Alice E. . 
CheiTF, William N... 
Chestile, John , 



351 
352 
353 
354 
355 

35B 
357 
358 
357 
360 

361 
362 
363 
364 
365 

366 
367 
368 
369 
370 



371 Clawson, Alfred 

382 Oleary, John 

373 Clement, Amanda M 
374, Clement. Cliarles W. 
375 Clifton, Higgins 



Christian, Edith 

Christian, James 

Christianson, Gustavus. 
Christopher, Thomas ... 
Cliristy, Hannah L , 



Clair, Benjamin A. . 
Clancy, William J. . 
Clanton, SamuelT. 

Clark, Edwin 

Clark, Emma P 



Clark, Mary E... 
Clark, Mary J. .. 
Clark, Rachel A. 

Clark, Rosa 

Clarey, Jane 



376 Close, John W ., 

377 Cloud, James H. 



m Cluney. William H. 

379, Coau. Sallie 

380, Coats, Rebecca 



381 Cochran, Charles . . . 

382 Cochran Clara 

383 Cockrill, Sarah J.... 
.384!Codman, Chester C. 
385'Cody, Margaret 



386 Coel, Nellie 

387, Coffee Marv 

388 Coffman. Willam O 
389:Coghill, Richard J . 
390 Colbert, William.... 



391 Cole, Jonathan H 

392 Colehane, WiUiam , 

393 Coleman, Agnes 

394lColeman, Frederick Charles 
395 Coleman. Martin 



396 Coleman, Matilda 

397, Coleman, Reuben 8 

398, Colson, Calvin C 

399iCoombe, Jacob Henry 

400,Comiskey, Ignatius Lyola . 



40l|Comley. Kate W .... 
402,Comp, Charles E.... 

403 Com[), Harvey M 

404 Compton. Letitia B., 

405 Conn, Frank 



Kewanee 

Pickneyville . 

Cquawka 

Mahomet 

Jefferson. .. . 



Macon. . .. 
Tamaroa. 
Chicago .. 

Peru 

Swedonia 



Warsaw . . . . 

Ogden 

Quincy 

Blackberry. 
Fort Smith. 



Kreuger 

Jacksonville. 



Yale 
Lodi 



Henry 

Galesburg 

Bloomipgton. 

Cole Pork 



Centreville . 
O'Fallon.... 



Havana 

Olney 

Biggston . . 

Marseilles.. 
Sterling . . . 
Lynnville. . 
Chicago .. . 
Bates 



North Evanston, 

Pulton 

Bent ley 

Oquavvka 

Industry 



Kinraundy. 

Chenoa 

LaSHlle 

Virginia . .. 
White Hall.. 



LaSalle 

Galesburg .. 
Petersburg. 

Macon 

Chicago 



Chester. .. 

Bulla 

TIskilwa. . 
Nokomis,. 
Chemung. 



406 Conn Mary 

407 Conn, Nanev 

408 Conner, Mabel M. 
409|Conner, William. . 
410 Connett, Alonzo . 



Chemung. 



Jacksonville., 

Orleans 

Hardinsville. 



Henry 

Pei-ry 

Henderson. ., 
Champaign ., 
Cook 



Macon. . . 
Perry ... 
Cook.... 
LaSalle. 
Mercer . . 



Hancock ... 
Champaign , 

Adams 

Kane 

Arkansas . . . 



Woodford — 
Morgan 



Jasper 
Kane.. . 



Marshall. 

Knox 

McLean . 

Warren.. . 



Piatt 

St. Clair 



Mason . . . 
Richland 
Scott 



LaSalle 

Whiteside . 

Morgan 

Cook 

Sangamon 



Cook 

Whiteside.... 

Hancock 

Henderson... 
MoDonough. 



Marion.. 
McLean. 
LaSalle.. 

Cass 

Greene... 



LaSalle.. 

Knox 

Menard . 
Macon . . 
Cook.... 



Randolph 
Bureau 



Montgomery, 
McHenry. ... 



McHenry., 
Morgan.... 
Crawford. 



1879 
1880 
1861 
1861 
1854 



1890 
1859 
1881 
1869 

1870 
1881 
1818 
1880 
1865 

1864 
1872 
1872 
1884 
1875 

1863 
1880 
1857 
1857 
1854 

1880 
1876 



1881 
1878 
1877 

1871 
1871 

18711 
1869 
1876 

1884 
1873 
1871 
1853 
1874 

1866 
1878 
1885 
1891 
1880 



1874 
1867 
1882 
1891 

1879 
1874 
1858 
I8S3 
1877 

1877 
1877 
1881 
1857 
1884 



H.D.,1886 
D.R.,1887 

G. , 1871 

H. D.,1869 
D.R.,1859 

D.R.,1884 



H.D.,1866 
H;bV,i874 



11 D.R.,1880 
10 D.R.,1891 
13;H.D.,1851 
HID. R., 1880 
19 H.D ,1870 



H.D.,1869 
D.R.,1884 
D.R.,1884 



G. , 1887 

H. D.,1877 

G. , 1892 

H. D.,1866 
H.D.,1867 
H.D.,1854 

D.R.,1886 
G., 1880 



D.R.,1891 
G.. 1879 
D.R.,1891 

R.S.,1874 
G.. IS 
D.R.,1883 
G.. 1878 
R.S,.1877 



R.S.,1879 

G. , 1881 

H. D ,186 
9!D.R..188I 



H.D.,1872 

D.R.,1884 



D.R,.1887 



D.. 1875 
D.R.,1876 



D.R.,1884 

G. , 1882 

H. D.,1865 
D.K.,1891 
D.R.,1884 

D.R.,1884 
D.R.,1884 



D.R.,1858 



— Continued. 



63 



351 

352 I 

353 : 

351 

355 : 

35(1 1 
357 

358 ; 
359 
3G0 

361 
3(i2 I 
3(j3 
3()4 
3ti5 

3(iC 

m-< 

3li8 I 
360 
370 : 

371 
372 
373 
371 
375 

376 
377 



378 
379 



381 
382 
383 
384 
385 

386 
387 
388 
389 
890 

391 
392 
993 
39 1 
395 

396 
397 
398 
399 
400 

401 

402 
403 
404 
405 

406 
Mt7 
403 
409 
410 



Deafness 


Age. 


UcjA-J* J!V J^ljAll V JIjS. 


hid Q 
>- G 2 
W S OJ 

to o 

: M 


Remarks. 












Spinal meningitis. . 










Measles 










Winter fever 










Nervous fever 










Spinal meningitis . 
Scarlet fever 



















4>6 years 
B 






Swede, m'd. d. m. (^2) .... 


















Congestion brain.. 








































Wtiooping cough.. 




















B 








Scarlet lever 


7 mo's. .. 


Sr. (367) 
























Intermittent fever. 




















B 


Br. (374) 


2d Os 
2d Cs 


M'd. d. m. (162) 2d (869) 




B 


Sr. (373) 


M'd. d. m. (2043) 










Spinal meningitis . 
















Gr't'd d. m. col. m'd d. m. 
(932), cl'g'm'n P. E. Church 








































Brain fever 












B 






English, m'd d . m. (191) .... 
M'd d. m. (2006) 




B 








B 


Sr., 2 Brs 




Irish 












Fall 


















M'd d. m. (1670) 


Ri.sing in head 








M'd d. m. (2155) 


Spinal meningitis.. 




























Spinal meningitis , 






















B 










2^ years 
















Congestion of brain 




























Spinal meningitis . . 










Hydrocephalus 


8 years.. 
8 mo's. .. 
2!6 years 


C. (403) 






C. (402) 




M'd d.m. (.554) 


Spinal meningitis.. 
















B 










B 








Brain fever 




















Disease of ear 











64 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Address. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad 

MITTED 



Mode OF 
Dis- 

CHAEGE. 



411 

412 
413 
414 
415 

416 
417 
418 
419 
420 

421 

422 
423 
424 
425 

426 
427 
428 
429 
430 



Conolly, John 

Conrad, Annie P . 
Conrady. John E. 
Conroy, Edwin ... 
Conway, Alice 



Conway, Jotham J.., 
Conyers. William J., 

Cook, Harry 

( 'Ook, Thomas 

Cooley, Maro S 



Copeland, Caroline.. . 

Gopher, Emeline 

Copher, George 

Gopher, Joshua 

Coplen, Leonidas L. 



Copple, Izona A 

Corey, Clarence A... 
Corey, Ploretta May. 

Corley. Etta May 

Cornell, Kruson 



431 Corwin, Leonard S 

432 Couve. Mary A , 

433 Cowden, Virginia. . 



Cox, Charles S 

Cox, Joseph Garside. 



Cox, Joseph S. 

Cox, Mary 

Cox, Melinda.. 
Cox, Mplyille .. 
Cox, Warren . . 



Coyne, Marparet.. 

Craig, John W 

Cramer. Louisa E. 
Cramer, Sarah E.. 
Craven, Sallie 



4.34 
485 

43K 
437 
438 
439 
440 

441 
442 
443 
444 
445 

446 
447 
448 
449 
450 

451 
452 

453 
454 
455 

456 
457 
458 
4.59 
460 

461 
462 
463 
464 
465 

466 
467 

468 
469 

470 ; Curtis, Luttie 



Craven. Robert 

Cranwill, Thomas J. ., 
Crawford, Cynthia E , 
Crawford, Huldah J.. 
Crawford, Richard .., 



Crews, Marshall 

Crispin, William A. 



Crisup, Herbert. , 
Crocker, Winnie , 
Crockett, John... 



Cronin, Daniel , 
Crooks, Annie. . 
Crooks, Delia . . 
Crooks, Erwin , 
Cross, William . 



Cross, William H 

Grossman, Lemuel 

Oullen, Edward Joseph. . 

Cullen, William P , 

Cully, Clara B 



Culver, Theodore A 

Gumming, Robina Mitchell , 

Cunningham. Rachel 

Gurry, Orinda E 



Chicago 

Castleton 

Peru 

New Pittsburg 
Jerseyville 

ElPaso 

Quincy 

Ogden 

Sullivan 

Quincy.' 

niney 

Marion 

Southport 

Laclede 

Rockford 

Mt. Sterling... 

Yantisville 

Wenona 

Canton 

Wethersfleld .. 
Rock Island.. . 

Kappa 

Canton 

Decatur 

Canton 

Decatnr 

Williamsport. . 
Waverly 

Alton 

Woodstock 

Vale 

Yale 

Jacksonville . . 

.Tacksonville . . 

Manito 

Pesotum 

Pesotum 

Denmark 

Fairfield 

Oakley 

Chicago 

Carlyle 

East St. Louis 

Pekin 

Jacksonville . . 
.Jacksonville . . 
.Jacksonville . . 
Etna 

Beardstown... 
Fayetteville .. . 

Peoria 

Rrimfield 

Jacksonville . . 

Delavan 

Chicago 

Newark 

Petersburg 

Hinesboro 



Cook 

Stark 

LaSalle 

St. Clair 

Jersey 

Woodford .... 

Adams 

Champaign.... 

Moultrie , 

Adams 

Richland 

Williamson. .. 

Peoria 

Payette 

Winnebago .. 

Brown 

Shelby 

Marshall 

Fulton 

Henry 

Rock Island.. 

Woodford 

Fulton 

Macon 

Fulton 

Macon 

Indiana 

Morgan 

Madison 

MoHenry 

JaMier 

Morgan 

Morgan 

Mason 

Champaig.i .. 

Perry 

Wayne 

Macon 

Cook 

Clinton 

St. Clair 

Tazewell 

Morgan 

Coles 

Cass 

St. Clair 

Peoria 

Morgan 

Tazewell 

Cook 

Kendall 

Menard 

Douglas 



1 

1879 
1880 
1880 
1878 

1867 
1879 
1881 
1878 
1850 

1875 
1877 
1876 
1875 
1863 

1872 
1868 
1889 
1891 
1869 

1870 
1859 
1876 

1869 
1887 

1875 
1889 
1865 
1887 
1865 

1878 
1855 
1884 
1KS4 
1851 

1 8.56 
1874 
1873 
1873 
1873 

1869 
1857 

1880 
1891 
1875 

1874 
1885 
1885 
18X5 
1867 

1886 
1867 
1884 
1864 
1876 



1850 
1857 
1890 



H.D.,1866 



G. , 18 

H. D.,1872 
D.R.,1887 



H.D.,1855 

G. . 1887 
D R., 188(1 
D.R.,1X84 
D.. 1880 

H. D.,1865 

D.R..1882 
R.S., 1872 



H.D.,1872 

H.D.,1880 
D.R.,1863 
G., 1880 

D.R.,1878 



R.S.,1880 
D.R.,1892 
H.D.,1875 
H.D. I8S9 
H.D..1870 



D., 1862 
D.R.,1891 



H.D.,18.59 

H.D.,186I 
G.. 188,5 
0,R.,1887 
D.R.,1S84 
D., 1874 



D., 
G., 



1872 
1866 



D.R.,1880 
D.R'.,'i887 
D.R.,1881 



H,D.,1882 



D.R.,1876 
D.R.,1887 
H D.,1879 
H.D.,1891 

D.R.,1891 



D.R.,1857 
D.R.,1858 



— Continued. 



65 



•114 
41.' 



417 
418 
411) 
420 

421 

422 
423 
424 
42.'-) 

42i; 
427 
428 
429 
430 

431 
4S2 
433 

434 
435 

436 
437 
438 
439 
440 

441 

4-t2 ' 
443 
444 
445 

446 - 
447 
448 
449 
460 I 

451 
452 ; 

453 
454 
455 

456 1 
457 
458 
4^9 , 
460 ] 

461 

462 , 
463] 
464 : 
465 

466 
467 

468] 
469 

470 : 



Deafness. 


Deaf Belatives. 


(JONSAN- 

guinityof 
Pabents... 


1 

Remarks. 


Cause. 


Age. 












Shock of li^litnin^. 
•Spinjxl iu6niDgitis. . 








tjerman, m cl a. m. (1864),. 






































Spinal meningitis,. 






































M'd d. m. (1668) 














B 










D 


Twin Br. i,365) Sr. (363).... 

or. loDo} 1 win Jl>1 , loO^ J . . . . 


Cs 






1> 
















T> 






MM H m /-^(Hl 
























1 vGar. . . 
B 














M'd f\ m 


uongestion Drain.. 








MM fl m nji(h;t 


B 








Spinal meninjsfitis . 








ijoL/ttUlC £t ItJcKJUox 111 XOWw 

lust 


















Sickness 




















Gathering in head. 




















D 






M'dd. m. (581) 2d (5) 






















Spiual meningitis . 


6 mo s. . . 

R 


1 f t iA\ 






1 Qr> M iQ\ 








r> 


n T> ,„ ( 4 


















Sy^ years 






Trit;ii MM (1 TTl /SilJli 




C! v> ( i ACi\ 














MVI rl m f:^'?il 


bpinai meningitis . 










„ 








Inflammation brain 








MM f{ lYi IHIJ) HpnamA Q 

iXL KJL ii. 111. tlv-ty. XXJOdilliy d 




























Spinal meningitis . 








Tric;Vi 


B 


Di' fAK.\i\ Qw IAt:iO\ 








B 


Vi-f /ylKO\ ttn IAK.'y\ 








B 


2 Srs (457) (458) 






































i mo's. .. 




























10 years. 
















Inflammation brain 




















Malarial fever 











66 



List of Pupils 



Xame. 



postoffice 
Addbess. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 
Dis- 

CHAEGE. 



■ H 



471 
472 
473 
474 
475 



Daeoh, Henry Philip . .. 

Pahlin, Selma 

Daigh, Marearet J 

Dalton, William F 

Dalzell, Bertie Carmen. 



47(i Damon, Blanche 

477 Daniels, Edna Jane 

478 Daniels, Louis F.... 

479 Darnell, Anna M 

480 Darnell, James 



481 Darnell, William 

482iDarnielle, Harrison S. 



483 
484 
485 



Daub. Bertha. 
Dauffherty, Henry A. 
David, Eva 



486 Davidson, Mary C. 
487|Davis, Florence A. 



488 
48» 
490 

491 
492 
493 
494 
495 

496 
497 
498 
499 
500 

501 
502 
503 
504 
5U5 

506 
507 
508 
509 
510 

511 

512 
51H 
514 
515 



Davis, George S. 
Davis, Henry . 
Davis, Lucy C. 



Davis, Lydia 

Davis, Rachel 

Davis, Viola 

Davis, Zelma Pearly 
Davison, Albert M... 



Day, Charles P 

Day, Clara 

Day, Pearl 

De- n, Kenneth 

DeCamp, William Henry 



DeFrates, Antonio 

Dees, Edith 

DeGraaiT, John 

Delaney, .John 

Delano, Curtis 



DePue, Mamie 

Devore, Almira. .. 
Devore, Wil!i:im.. 
Dewey, Dennis A. 
Dice, Bion V 



Dice, Etoile E 

Dick. Simon P 

Dickinson, Arthur. 
Diekoif, August .. . 
Dilg. Eugene H 



516 Dillen, John A 

517, Dion, Ansrcline 

518iDippolt, Barbara 

519 Dippolt, Lena 

520 Dippolt, John Henry. 



521 
522 
523 
524 
525 

•526 
.527 

628 
529 
530 



Diss. Helen 

Ditzler. Lydia Elvernia , 

Diver. William G , 

Divine, Patrick 

Dobell, Harold Hans... 



Dobyns, George L. , 

Dole, Lucinda 

Dolson, Margaret A., 
Domm. Lawrence ... 
Donnegan, Edward., 



Edwardsville. 

Varna 

Springfield.... 

Aurora 

Chesterfield.. 



Mayfair 

Pittsfield ... 
Chicago .... 

Quincy 

Springfield.. 



Sp'ingfield., 

Delhi 

Peoria 

Kirksville... 
Paris 



Emden.... 
Hoylton .. 
Rock ford , 
Coalville.. 
Denmark . 



Hey wood. .. 
Mason City. 
Greenfield.. 

Avon 

Philo 



Chicago 

.Tacksonville . 
HoustonviUe., 

Galena 

CSntralia 



Jacksonville . 

Chicago 

South Lawn. , 

Galena 

Big Rock 



Cairo . 

Men don .. 
Quincy — 
Iowa City 
Danville . . 



Danville 

Shnnnon 

Lamoille 

Bloomington. 
Mascoutah . .. 



Minonk.. 
Chicago 
Farina .. 



Mt. Sterling.. 
Yellow Creek 
Dallas City. ... 

Algonquin 

Jacksonville.. 



Tamaroa . . 
Manteno.. . 
Htintsville. 

Seneca 

Chicago . . . 



Madi.'on 

Marshall 

Sangamon 

Kane 

Macoupin 

Cook 

Pike 

Cook 

Adams 

Sangamon 

Sangamon 

Jersey 

Peoria 

Miss'ri (State) 
Edgar 

Logan 

Washington.. 
Winnebago... 
Livingston . .. 
Perry 

McLean 

Mason 

Greene 

Fulton 

Champaign .. 

Cook 

Morgan 

Champaign .. 

JoDaviess 

Marion 

Morgan 

Cook 

.ToDaviess 

Kane 

Alexander 

Adams 

Iowa (State).. 
Vermilion 

Vermilion 

CHrroll 

Bur eau 

M -Lean 

St. Clair 

Woodford — 

Cook 

Fayette 

Brown 

Stephenson .. 
Henderson. .. 

McHenry 

Morgan 

Perry 

Kankakee 

Schuyler 

LaSalle 

Cook 



1889 
1888 
1848 
1879 
1883 

1891 
1890 
1870 
1882 
1847 

1847 
1850 
1888 
1868 
1889 

1885 
1862 
1 879 1 
1869 
1882 

1865 
1818 
1879 
1889 
1872 

1871 
1887 
1873 
1867 
1885 

1851 
1890 
1887 
1875 
1880 

1885 
1858 
1851 
1-48 
1867 

1868 
1863 
1872 
1883 
1880 

1866 
1870 
1884 
1884 
1881 

1863 
1891 
1857 
1858 
1885 

1872 
17x2 
1849 
1 8' II 
1876 



H.D.,1856 
D.B.,1887 
B.S.,1889 



D.R.,1880 

H'D.',i854 

H.D.,1854 
G. 1859 



H.D.,1869 



H.D.,1869 
D.R.,1886 
U.R.,1870 



D.r:.,1868 
H.D.,1S54 



D.R.,1881 

D.R.,1881 
D.R.,1891 

G. 1884 
DR., 1873 
R.S.,1888 

H. D.,1859 



B.S.,1876 



H.D.,1866 
H.D ,1860 
H.D.,1852 
D.B.,1877 

G. 1879 
D.R.,1866 
R.S.,1875 



D.R.,1862 
D.R.,1879 



D.R.,1886 



D.R.,1864 



n.R.,1859 
H.D..1864 
R.S.,1887 

D.R.,1881 
DR., 1887 
D.B.,1850 



D.R,,1881 



— Continued. 



67 



Deafness. 



Cause. 



Age. 



DEAr Relatives. 



>■ C a 

was 

M ^ t> 

^"^^ 
tn o 



Bemaeks. 



Congest'on of spine 



Mumps 

Measles 

Spinal meningitis . 



471 

472 
473 
474 
475 

476 
477 

478 Scarlet fever 

479 Spinal meningitis. 

480 , 



5 years. 

B 

4 years. 
3 years. 
3 years. 



Swede 

M'dd. m. (2077). 
Irish 



2 years. 



B. 



481 

482;Brain fever 

483 Sickness 

484 Diplitheria 

485 Gatlierine in head. 



486 
487 
488 
489 
490 



Spinal meningitis 



B 

5 years. 
10 mo's. 

2 years, 
lu mo's. 

3 years. 



Br. (481) . 
Br. (480). 



2d C. 



M'd d. m. (445) 
Md d.'m'.'(804).' 



Sorofuhi. 



1 year.. 
B 

B 



1 C. (2154), 3.?d Os. 



491 Sickness . 

492 Fever. 
493 
494 
495 



Spinal meningitis 
Spinal disease 



10 years 

2 years., 

3 years., 
10 mo's., 
B 



2d O. 



496 Brain fever 

497 Scarlet fever 

498 Quinine 

499 Hydrocephalus.. . . 

500 Spinal meningitis 



501 
502 

503 Typhoid fever 

504 Dropsy of brain — 

505 Spinal meningitis . 



3 years. 
5 mo's. . 

4 years. 



506 
507 
508 
509 
510 

511 
512 
513 
514 
515 

1 

516 
517 
518 
519 
520 



Sickness 



Erysipelas 



Spinal meningitis 



B 

3M years 
9 mo's. .. 



B 

B 

B 

11 mo's. 
B 



2 Brs. (508) .. 
Sr. (507), Br. 



B 

5 years.. 

B 

1 year. .. 
2>6 years 



Sr. (511) . 
Br. (510). 



M'd d. m. 



M'd d. m. 



Md. d. m. (1038). 



Irish . 



Portuguese; m'd d. m.(935) 



M'd d. m. 
M'dd. m. 



M'd d. m. (1182). 



M'd a woman who hears. 
German 



Br. (520), Sr. (519). 
Br. (520), Sr. (518). 
2 Srs. (518), (519)... 



521 Nervous fever 

522 Whooping cough.. 

523 Inflammation brain 

524 Scarlet fever 
525 



4 years. 

5 mo's. . 



,526 
527 
528 
529 
530 



Typhoid fever 

Spinal meningitis . 



Typhoid fever. 



13 years 
B 

13 mo's . , 
3 years.. 



7 years. 



French .. 
German 
German 
German 



Irish, M'd d. m. (2142). 
English 



Irish 



68 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



POSTOFFICE 
A.DDEESS. 



County op 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 

Dis- 
charge. 



531 Dornbush, Henry. . . 

532 Doughty, Samuel T. 
633 Dovie, Martha 

534 Doyle, Mary 

535 Doyle, Kosanna T. . . 



536iDrake, Clyde Albert. 



537 
638 
539 
540 

541 

542 
543 
544 
545 

546 
547 
548 
549 
550 

551 
552 
553 
554 
555 

556 
557 
558 
559 
560 

561 

562 
563 
564 
565 

566 
567 
668 
569 
570 

571 

572 
573 
574 
575 

576 
597 
578 

580 

581 
582 
583 
584 
585 

586 
687 
588 
589 
690 



Dresser, Josephin 
Dnskell, Elsie A ... 
Driskell, Joseph M , 
Droussent, Beitha. 



Dry den, Samuel O... 

Duartp, Mary 

Duff. Eliza J 

Duff. Ellen 

Duffy, John William. 



Dusger, Louis S 

Duianey, Francis S 

Dumbriski, Woolf 

Dumont, Oeorgetta May. 
Duncan, Frank 



Duncan, Nathaniel 

Dunham, Mary P 

Dunham, iviary L 

Dunlap, Emsline 

Dunlap, Stella Roberta. 



Dunleavy, William. 
Dun levy, Sarah J . , 

Dunn, Annie 

Dunn. Charles .. 

Dunn. George 



Dunnerman, Theodore John. 

Dunnivan, Amoson H 

Du Plese, Matilda 

L)u Puis, Frederick 

Durham, Clara B 



Dustert, Jacob 

Dwyer, Maggie 

Eamcs, Florence Ina . . . 
Earnest. Lena Hannah . 
Earnest, Minnie E 



Earnest, Theodore. . . 

Bast, Grace B 

Easton. Elizabeth A. 
Eaton. Olive Nettie.. 
Eberhart, Jacob ..... 



Eckhart. John 

Ecker. William 

Eokland, Greta M . . . 

Eden, Lavinia 

Edens, Archibald D. 



Edgar, Mary E 

Edgemon, Laura N . 
Edwards. Emma E. . 
Edwards, James A. . 
Edwards. John M. .. 



Edwards. Joseph B 

Edwards, Luther Clarence. 

Edwards, Mary E 

Edwards. Minnie 

Edwards, Sarah T 



Peru 

Homer 

Rushville. 
Chicago .. 
Quincy 



Oliver 

Naples 

Waverly 

Pleasant Valley. 
Hamilton 



Campbell 

Jacksonville . . 
Campbell Hill. 

Gilbert 

Manito 



LaSalle 

Champaign 

Schuyler 

Cook 

4 dams ..... 



1873 
i87'i 
1870 
1874 
1869 



Edgar Ill 

Scott '1X58 

Morgan 1867 

M.'Donongh.. J845 
Hancock 1879 

i Coles |lh79 

. IMorgan 

.! Jackson 11880 



I Kane. 
iTazewell , 



Athensville. 

Marshall 

Chicago 

Rose Clare . 
Ash Grove . 



Highland 

Franklin , 

Waynesville .. 
Southampton . 
Dunlap 



Moi-ris 

Trivoli 

Oquawka,. 
Chicago... 



Nashville 

Pleasant Hill. 

Moline 

Kankakee 

Washington.. 



Chicago 

Stonington 
Granvilie .. . 
Barry 



Barry 

Wapella 

Southampton . 
Petersburg. .. , 
Will's Centre. . 



LaSalle . 
Chicago 
Alrona .. 
Elgin . .. 
Darwin . 



Knoxville 

Jacksonville 
Litchfield.... 
Lacon 



Bruce 

Coffeen 

Springfleld . 

Onarga 

Lacon 



Greene . . 

Clark 

Cook 

Hardin . . 
Iroquois. 



Madison. 
Morgan . . 
Logan . . . 
Peoria 



Grundy 

Peoria 

Henderson ... 
Cook 



Washington. 

Pike 

Bock Island. 

Kankakee 

Tazewell 



Cook 

Christian. 
Putnam ... 
Pike 



Pike .... 
DeWitt. 
Peoria .. 
Menard.. 
Cook — 



LaSalle., 
Cook.... 
Knox . .. 

Kan» 

Ciark . .. 



Knox 

Morgan 

Montgomery.. 
Mar-hall 



Moultrie 

Montgomery., 

Sangamon 

Iroquois 

Marshall 



1S69 
1889 

1891 
1874 
18H9 
1884 
1872 

1850 
1861 
1850 
1860 
1883 

1857 
1882 
1883 
1883 



1884 
1867 
1S56 
1 807 
1849 

1884 
1881 
1886 
1888 



1890 
1878 
1851 
1883 
1879 

1872 
1884 
1871 
1859 
1872 

1867 
1864 
1866 
1847 
1851 

1875 
1889 
1867 
1881 
1847 



G.. 1885 
D.R.,18so 
D., 1872 
ii.R.,1881 
G., 1880 



10 

10,H.D.,1869 
8 D.R.,1880 
14!D.R.,1855 
lOD.K., 1891 

17!d.R.,1881 
lllD.R.,1875 
20iD.R..1884 
13 D.R.,1880 
16 



D.R.,1884 



D.R.,1884 

D.E.,1856 

G. . 180! 

H. D., 18.53 
G., 1870 



D.R..1864 



D.R.,1880 
H:.D.,1864 
D., 1873 
H.D.,1853 

D.R..1887 
D.R..1886 
D.R..189I 



l).R.,1880 
H.D.,1853 



D.R.,1887 

D.R.,1881 
D.R.,1891 
D.R ,1880 

G. , 1871 
D., 1880 

H. D.,1877 
D.R.,1870 
R. S.,1876 
H.D.,1855 
H.D.,:858 

H.D.,1887 



D.R.,1879 
H.'D.',i855 



69 



— Contmued. 



12^ 

d 

W 


Deafness, 


Deaf Relatives. 


*T3a Q 
G 2 

M ^ 

m 2 f 


Remarks. 


» 


Cause. 


Age. 




ft 
■ 1^ 




531 

532 


Sickness 


3 mo*s 








Spinal meningitis 






















534 




B . 








535 


Typhoid fever.. .. 


17 mo's.. 


C 




M'd d. m 


53(i 


Gathering in head. 


2 years 








537 


B 








53S 




B 


Fr. (539), Mr. (2018) 






539 




B 


C, 2d C 


Cs.... 


M'd d. m. (2018) : 1 d. ch..2 hr. 
French 


51(1 




B 




Cs... 


541 


Gathering in head. 








542 










543 
511 


Scarlet fever 


1 year 


















515 


Spinal meningitis.. 


18 mo's.. 


i C 






5ii; 


B 








517 


Spinal meningitis . . 
Cranips 


3 years 






M'd d. m. (1649) 


5 IN 
5I'.» 


6 mo's 






Pole 


Spinal meningitis . . 










55(1 










551 




B 










Tvnhoid fevfir 


3 years 






M'd d. m. (690) 






Sr., 4 Cs 






55 \ 




B 


Sr. (585) 




M'd d. m. (403) 




infiam'n of throat.. 


a years . . 


Sr. (554) 






551 ; 


2Neph. (1724, 1726) 








Spinal meningitis. . 


1 year ,, 
B 








558 








55!l 


Fail 










5G0: 


B 


Br. (559) 






5lirSDinal menina-itis-. 


11 mo's 








5( 2 


Brain fever 


5 years 








563 




7 mo's 








6(M 


Cold 










505 












5(l(i 




B . . 








5(17 


Spinal meningitis , 










5(;s 












6(i!» 




B 


G.G.p'r'ts (57I),Br., Sr. (570) 
G.G.p'r'ts (571),Br.,Sr, (569) 

G.G.par'nts,2 Srs. (569,570) 






570 




B.. 






1571 




B 






572 










'573 




B 






M'd d. m. (2163) 


574 


Spina) meningitis.. 
Brain fever 










575 










|l576 


Scarlet fever 










■577 












1,578 
ii579 












Co id 








Became teacher in 111. Inst 


J580 


Spinal meningitis . . 
Spinal disease ... 








581 


6 years.. 


C 






582 


Congestion brain.. 










!583 










584 




B 


Br. (586). Sr. (590), 3 Cs.... 
Br. (58J) Sr. (590) 3 Cs.... 


Cs... 
Cs... 


M'd d. m. (1196) 


585 




B 




'58(i 


Spinal meningitis 




M'dd. m. (231' 


,587 
588 














B 






M'dd. m. (858) 


158!) 


Scarlet fever 










1590 




B 


2 Brs. 584), (585), 3 Cs 


Cs... 





—7 D. D. 



70 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Address. 



County or 

RES'DKNCE. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 
Dis- 

CHABGE. 



591 
592 
593 
594 
595 

59fi 
597 
598 
599 
600 

mi 

602 
603 
61)4 
605 

■60fi 

mi 

■608 
«60>l 
610 



Edwards, Walter D . . 
Edwards, William P . 
Eginiss, Martin T . . . . 

Eichorn, Mary 

Eigstein, John 



Elderkin, Julia A. 
Elen, Dorothy E . 
Eller, Lincoln J. . . 
Elliott, Georgia . . 
Ellioit, Robert W 



Elsey, Hesiah C. .. 
Elvers, Annie C. .. 

Elza, Annie B 

Emerson. Maude . 
English, Henry C. 



English, Mortimer H 

Eppleshelmer, Elizabeth R. 

Erb, Franlt B 

Erd. Robert L 

Erdman, Albert 



■611 Eriekson, Carohne 

612 Ernst, Mary 

6ri^Eser, Henry 

6l4lEsworthy, Sarah... 
615lEtter, Mary 



616 
€17 
618 
619 
62il 



Eubanks, Francis M. 
Eiibanks. Louisa C . . 

Evans, Florence 

Everest, Georgia 

Evens, Mary C 



621 Evenson. Harry. 



Exum, Ephraim. 
Evman, Thomas 
Fairfield, Edgar. 
Falter, Lillie M.. 



622 
62:S 
624 
«25 

«2(i 
■627 
628 
62' I 
630 



631 Passauer. John George 

632 Faunce, Sarah A. 

633 " ■ 
634 
635 



Fancher. Virginia. .. 

Fantoyz, John H 

Farmer, Melvlna 

Fasig, Sophia Ellen. 
Fasking, Bertha R.. 



Fawkner, Cyrus Gatewood . 

Fawkner, Freddie 

Fear, John W 



636 
637 
638 
€39 
640 

€41 
642 
€43 
644 
<)45 

«46 
€47 
648 
649 
€50 



Feeney, Margaret 

Feldman, Edward ... 
Ferguson, Elizabeth 

Ferguson, Jasper 

Ferguson, John 



Ferris, Eihe' J ... 
Fewkes, F ank.. . 

Fick, Emma 

Pickett, Chandler 
Feidler, Henry C. 



Field, Evangeline 

Fields, Cora Annis 

Fields, Delila 

Finell, Edna Elizabeth . 
Fischer, Frank , 



Springfield . 

Chicago 

Leland 

Spring Bay. 
Martin 



Jackson Grove. 

Belleville 

Pelvin 

Elliott 

Chicago 



Carrollton . 
Rosemond 
St. Louis. . 

Stoker 

Louisiana . 



Jacksonville 

Roberts 

Waukegan . . 

Waterloo 

Chicago 



Watertown. .. 

LaSalle 

Peru 

Compromise . 
Edwardsville. 

Carbondale .. 



Varna 

Ravinia. . 
Steward . 



Chicago... 
Denmark . 
Warsaw. . . 

Fisher 

Kempton . 



Jacksonville , 

Chicago 

Patoka 

Martinsville. 
Chicago 



Dawson 
Areola . . 



Princeton 



LaSalle . 
Quincy . . 

Liberty- 
Chicago 

Oneida . 
Albion . . 
Chicago 
Troy.... 

Chicago 



Carrollton . 
Louisville.. 

Rome 

Geneva 

Chicago . . . 



Sangamon 

Cook 

LaSalle 

Woodford — 
Tazewell 



Will 

St. Clair . 
Tazi^well , 

Ford 

Cook 



Greene 

Christian 

Miss'uri(state) 

White 

Lincoln 



Morgan. 
Ford .... 

Lake 

Monroe . 
Cook.... 



Rock Island.. 
LaSalle 



Jackson. 



Champaign . 
Madison 



Marshall. 

Lake 

Lee 



1864 
1876 
1870 
1875 
1807 

1857 i 
1847 
1880 
1876 
1865 

1862 
1877 
1880 
1891 
1850 

1869' 
1872 
1880 
1881 
1877 



8lD.R.,1876 
10!D.H.,lx8 
13!D.R.,1879 
15 D.R.,1884 
22iD.R.,1872 

le'n.D .1865 
14!H.D.,1856 
15!D.R.,1886 
91G , 1887 
11 H.D.,1874 

10'd.R.,1863 



1866 
1866 
1875 
1877 



Cook 1883 

Perry 11880 

Hancock 1873 

Champaign. .. 1879 
Ford 1882 



Morgan . 
Cook.... 
Marion.. 
Clark . .. 
Cook 



Sangamon 

Douglas 



Bureau . 

LaSalle.. 
Adams. . 



Cook. 



Knox 

Edwards 

Cook 

Fulton ... 
Cook 



Greene . .. 

Clay 

Jefferson . 
Kane . . — 
Cook 



1846 
1874 
1869 
18S7 
1881 

1887 
1877 
1884 
1888 
1871 

1873 
1869 
1884 
1855 
1879 

1872 
1877 
1890 
1851 
1884 

1880 
1886 
1864 
1891 
1889 



18f;2 10 
1880 9 
1887 
1882 
1861 



D.R ,1882 
D.R.,1884 



H.D..li 

H.D.,1882 
G., 1887 
Ex., 1891 



D.R.,1878 
D.R, 1864 



D.R.,1864 

H,D ,1873 
H.D.,1872 
R.S.,1878 
D.R.,1879 



D.R.,1887 
G., 1884 
D.R.,1 



H.D.,I852 
D.R., 1882 
D.R.,1874 
D.R.,1891 
D.R.,1892 

D.R. 1892 
H.D.,1891 



D.R.,1876 

D.R.,1887 
G., 1884 

G. , 1889 

H. D.,1866 
D.R.,18!57 

D.R ,1879 
D.R.,1886 
D.R.,1892 
D.R.,1853 
D.R. 1886 

R.S.,1884 

H.D.,1868 



71 



— Continued. 



Deafness. 


Age. 


JJEAF xvELATlVKS. 


Consan- 
guinity OF 
Parents... 


ivEMARES . 




B 


Pr., Sr. (588) 






Fall 










Feve 


4 mo's 






German 




B 










B 


C. (139G) 


















B 






German 


Spinal meningitis . . 














C 








B 






English, m'd d. m. [1474) . .. 






























Effect pneumonitis 
Fever 
















M'd d. m. ; became teacher 


















German; m'd d. m. (2124). 


Spinal meningitis. 










B 
















































Spinal meningitis , . 






















B 


Sr. (617), 2 G. Us 


Cs 






B 


Br. (616). 2 G. Us 


Cs. .. 


M'd d. m. (11) 


Conu'stion of brain 
Spinal meningitis.. 






























Cs... 




Sickness 








Brain fever 


























Cs. .. 










M'd d. m. (1850) 




B 


















Gathering in head. 


















Intermittent fever. 










B 








Pneumonia 


2 year.?.. 
B 
















Disease of spine... 










3 years. . 
B 


C 












German; m'dd. m. (2063).. 


Fall 


13 years. 
2}^ years 






Worms and fev^r.. 














Scarlet fever 










Diplitheria 










Brain fever 


3J6 years 
















Typhoid fever 










Spinal meningitis. 
























2d Cs 














4 years.. 









591 

592 
593 
594 
595 

596 
597 
598 
599 
€00 

601 

602 
603 
604 
605 

606 
607 
608 
609 
610 

611 
612 
613 
614 
615 

616 
617 
618 
619 
620 



6-.'3 : 

624 

625 ' 

626 I 
627 
628 
629 I 
«30 

631 

*S2 
633 
634 

635 : 
636 : 

637 
€38: 
639 
640 

641 
642 
613 : 
644 
645' 

€46 I 
€47 
648 
€49 
€50 



I 



72 



« 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



POSTOFFICE 
A.DDRESS. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 
Dis- 

CHABGE. 



CD 



651 

652 

653 
654 

655 

65(> 
657 
65« 
659 
660 

661 
662 
663 
664 
665 

6CG 
667 
668 
669 
670 

671 

67a 

673 
674 

'675 



Fischer, Grace .. 
Fisher, Lilhe H. 



Fisk, Newton 

Filch, Effle 

Fitzgerald, Marv A. 



Flanaus, Clara A 

Flannigan, Bernard 
Flemming, Fannie.. 
Flemming, James. .. 
Flood. Ellen 



Flora, Fredda 

Flovd, Jasper 

Fokkens Matthew 

Forbregd, Othilie Gudrun 
Forbregd, Thora 



Ford, Cass F 

Ford, Ester A 

Ford, Emory Palmer. 

Ford, Robert 

Ford, William 



Foreman, Margaret. 
Porsythe, Reuben .. 
Foster, Lillian M.... 

Foster, Peter 

Fountain, Isaac A. . . 



6 6 Fox, Charles L 

677 Fox, Elizabeth E 

678 Fraedrick, Anna D. F 

679 Francis, Edward D . . . . 

680 Franklin, Charles H . . 



Franklin, William 

Prangenheim, Charles . 

Fraser, George A 

Frasier, Myrtie Dell . . . . 
Freak, George Andrew. 



681 
682 
683 
684 
685 

686 
687 
688 
689 
690 

691 

692 
693 
694 



Frede, Matilda C 

Fredenb'.rg, Alexander 

Fredenburg. Amanda M 

Freebern, William Thomas , 
Freeman, James R 



Freidride, Frank J. 
French, Edith L.... 
Freuc-h, Myrtus B. . 
French, Sarah. 



695 French, William I. 



Friedinger, George. 

Fritz. Harry L 

Pry, Abigail 

Fry, Jessie M 

Frye, Sadie L 



696 
697 
698 
699 
700 

701 

.702 
703 
704 

7u5 

706 
707 
708 
709 
710 



Fryman, Albert L 

Fuller, Angeline 

Fuller, Clyde Greeley 

Fuller, Eliza 

Fuller, Helen T 



Fulton, Gertrude 

Funderburk, Charles W. 

Purgusou, Celia C 

Gabler, Eliza 

Gaddy, Elizabeth 



Chicago 

Paris 

Southport 

Chicago 

Mattoon 

Ashley 

Lostant 

Mobile 

Lamville 

Jewett 

Aurora 

Scotland 

Chicago 

Galesburg 

Ottawa 

Flat Rock 

Ottawa 

Pulley's Mill .... 

Pittsfleld 

Beardstown 

Chicago 

Victoria 

Forest City 

Owaneeo 

Edington 

Chicago 

Farm Ridge 

Clay City 

Woodville 

Wheaton 

Chi'^ago 

Elgin 

Chicago 

Walnut Grove.. . 
Mound Station. . 

Payson 

Grtinville 

Uelvidere 

Chicago 

Lincoln, 

Mendon 

Sandwich 

Groveland 

I5reese 

Parkersburg. ... 

Linden 

Morris 

Edgewood 

Savanna 

Hinckley 

Crandall's Perry 
Prairie City 

Fairfield 

Staunton 

Union Grove 

Chicago 

Olney 



Cook 

Edgar 

Wis. (State).. 

Cook 

Coles 

Washington. 

LaSalle 

Ala. (State).. 

Bureau 

Cumberland 

Kane 

Edgar 

Cook 

Knox 

LaSalle 

Crawford 

LaSalle 

Williamson. . 

Pike 

Cass 

Cook 

Knox 

Mason 

Christian .... 
Rock Island. 

Cook 

LaSalle 

Clay 

Adams 

DuPage 

Cook 

Kane 

Cook 

Knox 

Brown 

Adams 

Putnam 

Boone 

Cook 

Logan 

Adams 

DeKalb 

Tazewell 

Greene 

Richland. .. , 

Jasper 

Grumly 

Effingham.,.. 

Carroll 

DeKalb 

Whiteside .. , 
McDonough. 

Wayne 

Macoupin ... 
Whiteside .. . 

Cook 

Richland 



1889 
187, 

1849 
1881 
1862 

1880 
1 

1870 
1867 
188(1 

1878 
1879 
1891 
1889 
1889 

1862 
1861 
1883 
1884 
]88t) 

1853 
1848 
1875 
1890 
1872 

1877 
1869 
1891 
1852 
1885 

1860 
1879 
1868 



1861 
1862 
I860 
1873 
1859 

1874 
1889 
1877 
1871 
1891 

1877 
1879 
1865 
1874 
1880 

1860 
1859 
1883 
1848 
1870 

1886 
1879 
1849 
1882 
1854 



G. , 1882 

D.R.,1852 
R.S.,1882 

H. D.,1870 



H.D.,1872 
H.D.,1872 
D.R.,188« 

D.R.,1886 
D.R.,1884 



D.R.,1867 
D.R.,1864 



D.R.,1886 

H.D.,1863 
H.D.,1851 
D.R.,1884 



B.S.,1874 

D.R.,1884 
D.R.,1879 

H.D,',i857 



H.D.,1869 
D.R.,1880 
G., 1879 



H.D.,1872 
H.D.,1865 
H.U.,1865 
G., 1878 
G., 1871 

D.R.,i876 



G. , 

H. D. 



II 
,1872 



D.R.,1887 

G. , 1891 

H. D.,1869 
D.R.,1884 

G. , 1892 

H. D.,1869 
H.D.,1869 



D.B.,1849 
G. 1882 



H.D.,1853 



H.D.,1862 



—Continued. 



73 



Deafness. 



Cause. 



Age. 



Deaf Relatives. 



Remarks. 



651 

652 Scarlet fever. 



653 Quinine 
ii54 Measles 
655 Fall 



1156 
«57 
058 
659 
i;60, 

cei 

662 
663 
664 
G05 

666 
667 
668 
669 
670 

<71 
•C72 
■673 
€74 
€75 

€70 
677 
€78 
679 

380 



B 

3 years. 

2 years. 
7 years. 
9 mo'?. . 



Br. (650). 



Ssarlet fever. 



Typhoid fever , 



B 

2 years.. 

B 

10 years. 
B 



Sr , 



Spinal meningitis 



Irish. 



Cs. 



French. 



M'd d. m. (309) became a 
teacher in Col. Inst 



Irish , 



Sr. (6651. 
Sr. (664). 



Norwegian . 
Norwegian . 



Scarlet fever 

Spinal meningitis . 



18 mo's. 
3 years. 

2 years. 

3 years. 



Sickness 

Typhoid fever. 



Brain fever 



Gathering in head, 



Partially deaf f'm B 



5 years. 
18 mo's. 

B 

18 mo's. 

15 mo's. 
B 



M'd d. m. (251). 



2 Ws. lA. 



M'd d. m. (1073). 



681 Brain fever 

€82 Measles 

683|Spasms 

684 Gathering in head. 

685 Measles 



686 Sijkness 

687] 

688 Scarlet fever 

I Spinal meningitis. 
I Scarlet fever 



4 years. 
4 weeks. 
2>6 years 
2 years 
1 year.. 



3 years. 



German 

M'd. d. m. (12".2). 



690 

691 

692 
693 
694 
€95 

€96 
697 
698 
€99 
700 

701 

702 
703 
704 
705 

706 
707 
708 

7(19 
.710 



Scrofula . 



1 year... 

8 years . 



Sr. (688). 
Sr. (687) . 



Swede, m'd. d. m 

M'd d. m. (3.5) 

M'd d. m. (1588) 

M'd a woman who hrs. 
M'd. d. m. (552) 



B 

6 mo's. 



Br. Sr. (693). 
Sr. (692) Br. 



3d Cs 
3d Cs 



German 



Spinal meningitis. 



S pinal meningitis . 



2 years. 

B 

2 years. 



German 



M'd d. m. 
Irish 



Bilious fever. . . . 
Congestive chill 

Cold in head 

Inflammation head 



\}i years 
13 years. 
1 year.. 
3 years 



Cs. 



M'd semi-mute. 



M'd a man not deaf. 



Spinal meningitis. 

Cold 

Fall 

Cold, tak'g quinine 



B 

2 years. 



German 



German 



74 



List oi Pupils-- 



Name. 



postoffice 
Addbbss. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 

Dis- 
charge. 



Bt>»- 



Gaiser, Fi-ederika. . . 
Gallagher, James E. 



Gannon, James 

Gfirdner. Francis M 
Games, Eobert A. .. 



711 

712 

713 
714 
715 



716 Gari ett. Dexter H 

717 Garrett, Edward . . 

718 Garvin, John 

719 Garwood, Manie .. 

720 Gate.'=, Hugh G.... 



Gates, John F 

Gatz. Mary A 

Gavin, Jidia 

Gearhart, Eimer 

Gearhart, Franklin . 



721 

722 
723 
724 
725 

726 
727 
728 
729 

730 

781 
7H2 
7Hi 
734 
735 



730 Gherke, Mathilda .. 
787 Gibbens, Johnnie. . 
7.88 Gibbons, Fieldin T 

739 Gibbs. George B... 

740 Gibson, Bertie 



Geiger, Annie 

Gelder, Richard 

Gentry, Albert 

George, James Hathaway. 

Gerber. Frank 



Gerbing, Hermon. . 
German, Geoige... 
G 'rman, Maude M. 

Gefer, Pearl 

Getty, Luella 



741 

7-12 
743 
741 
745 

746 
747 
748 
749 
750 

751 
752 
753 
754 
765 

756 
757 
758 
759 
760 

761 

762 
763 
764 
765 

766 

767 



Gibson, James T 

Gibson, Boetta 

Gilchrist, Jennie E 

Gillette, George Wdliam. 
Gillilaud, Maggie H 



Gilman, Edward H 

Gilpin, William John . , 

Ginn, Mary Ann 

Girl, (name xinknown) 
Gladen, James W 



Glas?, Robert 

Glenn, William H ... 

Glof^s, Frederick 

Goff, Rebecca 

Goldberg, Solomon. 



Golden. Mary E 

Goodchild, Cornelia . 

Goodin, Albert J 

Goodin, Effle 

Gooding, Orestes 



Goodman, Lester, 



Goodner, Cleanthe J 
Goodner, Lafayette. . 

Goodner, Samuel 

Goodwin Bennett 



Goodwin, James. 
Goodwin, Mary 



768!Goolsby, Alexander. 
769|Gorecki, Veronica ... 
77olGordon, Joseph 



Edwardsville 

Girard 

Huntley 

Minier 

Norris 

Rockport 

Cable 

Orianna 

oh cksonville 

Deccitur 

Elizabeth 

Edwardsville 

Kane 

Belle'iower 

Carmi 

Amboy 

Sublette 

Jacksonville 

Chicago 

Springfield 

Bushnell 

Morgan Park 

Greenville 

Geneseo 

Kensington 

Springfield 

Teutopolis 

Thompson 

Mt. Vernon 

New Boston 

Centralia 

Lincoln. 

Streator 

Beaver Creek 

Charleston 

Chicago 

Sullivan 

Joliet 

Abingdon 

Carlinville 

Clinton 

Wayne 

Jacksonville 

Chicago 

Bushuell 

Waldron 

Bell__Air 

Gooding's Grove 

Chicago 

Ro.ssville 

Prairie City 

Walnut Grove . .. 

Prairie City 

Maroa 

Chicago ...1.. 



Madison 

Macoupin 

McHenry 

Tazewell 

Fulton 

Winnebago .. 

Mercer 

Macon 

Morgan 

Macon 

JoDaviess 

Madison 

Greene 

McLean 

White 

Lee 

Morgan 

Cook 

Sangamon 

McDonough.. 

Cook 

Bond 

Henry 

Cook 

Sangamon 

Effingham 

Carroll 

Jefferson 

Mercer 

Marion 

Logan 

LaSalle 

Bond 

Coles 

Cook 

Moulirie 

Will 

Knox 

Macoupin — 

DeW.tt 

DuPage 

Morgan 

Cook 

McDonough. . 

Kankakee 

Crawford 

Will 

Cook 

Vermilion 



McDonough.. 

Knox 

McDonough.. 

Macon 

Cook 



1877 
1868 

1870 
1875 
1871 

1875 
1889 
1883 
1872 
1881 

1855 
1878 
1881 
1873 
1873 

1881 
1874 
1869 
1891 

1873 

im 

1868 
1886 
1890 
1864 

1887 
1890 
1859 
1881 
1881 

1857 
1864 
1890 
1890 
1884 

1858 
1886 
1855 
1857 
1860 

1853 
1870 
1860 
1847 



1874 
1882 
1884 
1888 
1857 

1874 

1872 
1872 
1872 
1857 

1856 

1857 
1874' 
1882 
1886 



1888 
1877 



D.R.,11 
D.R.,1876 
D.R.,1881 

D.R.,1886 



D.R.,1886 
D.R.,1878 



G., 1859 
D.R..1880 



G., 1886 

G. , 1881 

D.R.,1882 
Ex. 187f: 

H. D.,1878 



D.R..188] 

D.R.,1891 
D.R.,1880 



G., 1874 
D.R ,1891 



23 
9 

20 H.D.,186! 
10 D.R. ,1892 
9 



G. , 1862 

H. D.,1872 
G., 1874 



14 D.B.,18C0 
13 

11 G., 1868 
. .. D.K.,1857 
. .. H.D.,1865 



H.D.,1861 
D.R.,1880 
H.D ,1874 
H.D.,1884 



R.S.,1S80 
D.R.,1891 



DR., 1859 
H.D.,1875 



22 D.R.,1878 
20 D.R.,18"8 
23, D.R.,1878 



D.R.,1858 
G., 1859 

D.R.,isr.8 

D R ,1H74 
D.R.. 1887 
D.R ,1891 



75 



— Continued. 



Deafness. 


Deaf Relatives. 


CONSAN- 
GUINTT OFi 

Parents.. 


Remakes. 


Cause. 


Age. 


Rrain ffivftr L'i vcarR.. 






Md. d. m. (1521> 


Spintil meningitis . . 






Irish, M'd d. m. (743): be- 
o'me a teach'rin Chicago- 


B ! 




Gratherins in liead. 
Spinal meningitis . 

Gr'th'g head ; me'sl's 
Spinal meningitis 
Brain fever 


5 years.. 

6 years 


0 












2 years 






Md d. m. (831) 


7^ years 
















B 


















Typhoid fever 


11 years. 














... . 




Spinal meningitis 








Irish 


B.... 


Br. (725) 






Gathering in head 


Br (724) 




M d d. m. (976) 


Brain fever 


15 mo*'^ 
















M'd d. m. (1229) 


Spinal meningitis 






2d Cs 


Killed on R. R. 1887 


7 years.. 


Fr.. Mr. (8S5), U. (ISiC). A.. 












Sm'nnl inpnino'if'ic: 

Fail 
















German 










Canadian 




B 










2 years 


G U 




M'd a man not d'f ; became 
a teach'r in Illinois Ins. . . 








SpinSil niGD'Dffitis 

frJitViPrinD'in VipnH 

vJ (1 1 11^1 1 11^ Lll LlKjCv\Xf 


1 vpn 

t /H J \jCLL o 












M'd d. m. (2068) 


Stii nn 1 mpn i ii jcriti q 










IVz years 
2 year^ 








Inflammation braiu 
Gathering in head.. 






M'dd. m. (993) 










R I'Q i Ti f A VP T' 


10 y dxi o . 






M'd d. m. (712) 












A A£l t^C 








D 


















Congestive chill 














































Quinine in infancy. 








German 




















Gathering in head. 
















French 






















Fall from a ho se . 










Spinal meningitis.. 


13 years. 
B 






M'd a %voman not deaf ; be- 
came teacher in III. Inst. 


2 Brs. (763). (764) 


2d Cs 
2dCs 
2dCs 




B 


Br. (764), Sr. (762) 






B 


Br. (763), Sr. (762) 














B 


3 Cs. (765), (767) 




M'd d. m. ; became teacher 
in Mississippi Inst 










Brain fever 


















Pole. M'd .1. m. (939) 


Fall from buiiding. 









711 

712 

713 
714 
715 

716 
717 
718 
719 
720 

721 
722 
723 
724 
725 

726 
727 
728 
729 

780 

731 

732 
733 
734 
735 

736 
737 
73S 
789 
740 

741 
742 
743 
744 
745 

746 
747 
748 
749 
750 

751 
752 
753 
754 
755 

756 I 

757 : 
7:)8 
759 

760 : 

761 I 

762 
76.< 
764 
765 

76G 

707 

768: 
769 

770 : 



76 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Address. 



County op 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 
Dis- 

CHAEGE. 



: H 



771 
772 
773 
774 
775 

776 
^77 
778 
779 
780 

781 

782 
7»3 
784 
785 

78G 
787 
788 
789 
790 

791 
792 
793 
794 
795 

796 
797 
798 
799 



801 

802 
803 
804 
805 



Gosselin, Joseph 

Gottschalgr, Louis C . . . 
Gottschalg. Magdaline 

Grottfichaig, Matilda 

Grovea, Samuel 



Gow, Lillie B 

Gracey, Henry 

Graddy, George W 

Gradey, Kobi-rt Walter. 
Graham, James D. 0 



Grant, Elmira 

Granville, Albert 

Granville. Caroline J. 

Gray, Andrew J 

Gray, Frank B 



Gray, James 

Green, Charles Leonard. 

Green, Edna 

Green, Osean W 

Green, Martha A 



Greening, Peter L. 
Greenwood. Addie. 

Gribben, Owen 

Gridley, Charles .. . 
Griggs, Nannie 



Grill, David 

Grill, Emaline Louisa .. 

Grindle, Charles G 

Groenewand, Cornelia . 
Gronberg, Albert 



Gi onso, Lavinia 

Gross, Philip 

Grubb, Doria 

Grubb, Martha 

GrzegOAVski, August. 



806 Gunderson, George. 

807 Gundry, James , 

Gunn, Cora B 

809 Gunn, Emily 

810 Gunn, James 



811 Gunn, Lora 

812 Gurley, John J 

813-Gustin. Edwin J.... 

814 Guth. Bertha 

815 Guthrie, George S. 



816 Haag, Cecilia 

81/1 Had wigp, Annie 

818 Hackmeister, Caroline. 

819 Hadley, Mary E 

820 Hadley, Rufus 



Chicago 
Joliet 



Jacksonville . 



Quincy , 

Alton 

Burnt Prairie . 
Bunker Hill... 
Dallas City..., 



Springfield , 
Morris 



Pair Held. 
Barry 



Grayville . 
Chicago .. 
M'lton .... 
Sullivan .. 
Pontiac . . . 



Alhambra 
Frankfort 
Chicago ... 
Morrison.. 
Payson 



Plainfleld 

N ew Athens . 

Fairbury 

Chicago 



Gardner 

Quincy 

Mills Shoals. 

Ulney 

Chicago 



Chicago 

Elizabe h Tp. 

Buda 

Olney 

Okaw 



Olney 

New Franklin. 

Chicago 

Quincy 

Judd 



82l|Hagadorn, Lydia 

822 Hageman, Charlotte S. 



823 
824 
825 



Hagen. William 

Hagenbaugh, Martha. 
Hagerman, Frank 



826 Hagerman, George 

827 Haig, Charles Warner. 

828 Haines, Margaret. 
829tHainline. Ida M... 
830 1 Hale. James H.... 



Litchfield 

Pretty man Station. 

Ruma '. 

Cowden 

Chicago 



Grand Ridge.. 
Gooilenow . .. 

Fieldon 

Ottawa 

Sterling 



Davis 

Caseyville 

Macomb 

Blandinsville. 
Blufls 



Cook. 
Will . . 



Morgan.. 



Adams 

Madison 

White 

Macoupin 

Hancock 



Sangamon.. 
Grundy 



Wayne. 
Pike . . . 



White 

Cook 

Pike 

Moultrie 

Livingston... 



Madison 

Franklin 

Cook 

Whiteside. . .. 
Adams 



Will 

St. CJair 

Livingston. .. 
Cook 



1861 
1878 
1868 
1868 
1868 

1880 
1888 
1861 
1884 
1884 

1849 
1879 
1874 
1873 
1868 

1879 
1889 
1889 
1870 
1855 

1855 
1875 
1884 
1873 
1881 

1884 
1883 
1874 
1873 
1873 



Grundy 1871 



Adams. 
Whitd. ... 
Richland 
Cook 



Cook 

JoDaviess .. . 

Bureau 

Richland 

Washington. 



Richland 
Wayne... 

Cook 

Adams 

Cook 



Montgomery., 

Tazewell 

Randolph 

Shelby 

Cook 



LaSallo 

Will 

Jersey 

LaSalle 

Whiteside 

Stephenson . . 

«t. Clair 

MoDonough.. 

Scott 



1 

1881 
1880 
1889 



1881 
1870 
1861 
1818 

1862 
1858 
1871 
1890 
1890 

1867 
1886 
1870 
1890 
1872 

1881 
1883 
1891 
1875 
1875 

1880 
1884 
1882 
1877 
1881 



G. , 1880 

H. D.,1861 

G., 1861 
D.R.,18S0 
D.R.,1891 
D R ,1882 



H.D.,1 
D.R.,I887 
G., 1879 

G. , 1879 

H, D.,1881 

R.S.,1882 



H.D.,1872 



D, 1853 
D.R.,i: 
DR., 1881 
D.R..1880 
G., 1873 

D.K.,1887 



D.R ,1884 
D.R,,1884 
DR., 1876 
H.D ,1876 
G., 1883 

G. . 1881 

H. D.,1863 



D.R.,1884 



D.R.,1892 
DR., 1887 

G. , 1878 
D.R..1864 

H. D..1851 

D.R.,1S63 
H.D.,187a 
G., 1882 



D.R.,1876 
H.D.,i879 



H.D.,1874 

R.S., 
D.R. 



1881 
1887 



G., 1880 
D.R.,1884 



10 H.D.,1890 

9 

ll!D.R.,1801 
10 D,R.,1892 
...Id.R.,1882 



77- 



— Continued. 



Deafness. 



Cause. 



Age. 



Deaf Relatives, 



> G O 
tU M 2; 

B 2: CO 

. o 



Remaeks. 



771 

772 
773 
774 

775 

776 
777 
778 
779 
780 

781 
782 
783 
784 
783 

786 
787 
788 
789 
790 

791 

792 
793 
794 
795 

796 
797 
748 
799 
800 

801 
802 
803 
804 
805 

806 
807 
808 
809 
810 

811 
812 
813 
814 
815 

816 
817 
818 
819 
820 

821 
822 
823 
824 
825 

826 
827 
828 
829 
830 



Brain fever. . 
Cold in head , 



Cold and abcess . 



Spinal meningitis. 



3 Srs. (773), (774) 

Br. (772), 2 Srs. (774). 
Br. (772), 2 Srs. (773). 



10 mo's. 
18 mo's. 

B 

18 mo's. 

11 mo's. 



French. M'd d. m. (1145).... 

German 

German. M'd d. m 

Geiman.M'dd. m. (1004).. 
Portuguese. M'd woman 
not deaf 



Irish., 



Chill .... 
Mumps , 



2 years. 



Sr. (783) , 
Br. (781). 



7 years. 



D. 1889 

Gidt. D. M. College. 



Spinal meningitis.. 

So.irlet fever 

Risings in 'head 

Spinal meningitis.. 
Sickness 



Winter fever. ... 

Brain fever 

Water on brain 
Cold 



4 years.. 
6 years.. 

1 year... 
4 years.. 
1% years 

8 years.. 
14 years. 

2 years.. 
2 years.. 



Cs. 



M'd d. m. (1745). 



M'd d.m. (1735) 
Irish 



Spinal meningitis. 



Typhoid fever 



1 year. .. 

B 

14 years. 



German 



5 years. 
B 



C. (804). 
C. (803). 



German 

Swede,. M'd d. m . 

M'd d. m. (1698) . . . 
German 



M'dd. m. (484). 



Spinal meningitis. 



5 years. 

B 

B 



Sr. (811) 3d C. 



Became teacher in III. Inst. 
M'd d. m 



Sr. (809) 3d C. 



M'd d. m. 



Unknown 

Chicken pox and 

sore throat 

Pall 

Spinal meningitis. 



Rising in head. 
Fall in water . .. 



Measles 

Typhoid fever. 

Cold 

Mumps 

Sickness 



7 years. 

254 years 
3 weeKS. 
2^2 years 

B 

4(4 mo's 
5 years. 



I year. . 
3 years. 
3 years. 
9 mo's. . 



Swede. Md. d. m.. 



German 
German 
German 



German 



Spinal meningitis 
Brain fever 



6 years. 



M'd d. m. (2117) 
German 



German 
Scotch . . 



4 years. 



Killed on railroad. 



78 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Address. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 
Dis- 

CHAEGE. 



m 

832 
833 
834 
835 

83H 
837 
838 
839 
840 

841 
842 
843 
844 
845 

846 
847 

848 
X49 
850 

851 
852 
853 
854 
855 

856 
857 
858 
859 
860 

861 

802 
863 
864 
865 

866 
867 
868 
869 
870 

871 
872 
873 
874 
875 

876 
877 
878 
879 
880 



883 
884 



887 



889 
890 



Haley, Louisa A 

Hall. Charles W 

Hall, Darthul'a 

Hall, Ernest William. 
Hall, Grace 



Hall, Gladden H 

Hall, Howard L 

Hall, Lottie Aristine. 

Hall, Nancy H 

Hallett, Ella 



Halloway, Margaret L. 

Hallowell, Malachi 

Halpen, Mary 

Hamilton, Tabitha R . . . 
Hamlin, Agnes 



Hamlin, Alma 

Hammock, John W. . 
Hammarley, Martin. . 
Handley, Howard. . . . 
Handley, William H. 



Hanline, Thomas 
Hanlon, Francis... 

Hanks, Ira D 

Hanna, Harry N. . 
Hanna, Julius C. . 



Hansen, Louisa P. 

Hanson, Laura 

Harden, Endorus.. 

Hardy, Arthur 

Hardy, Louisa E... 



Harger, Mary 

Harmon, Earl M 

Harmon, John 

Harper, Abagail E... 
Harper, Edgar A. P. 



Harper, John N... 
Harris, Amanda . . . 
Harris, Delbert W. 
Harris, Innes T. . . . 
Harris, Matilda 



Harris, Nellie 

Harrison, Samuel A 

Harsh. Henry F 

Hart, Charles 

Hart, Edward Alonzo.. 

Hart, William Thomas. 

Harte, Jemima 

Harte, Melissa 

Hartford. 'I'homas 

Hartley, John M 



Hartmau, Charle- C. 
Hartung, Frederick . 

Harvey, Eva 

Hatch. Elizabeth J. . 
Hathaway, Carrie 



Hathaway, Herbert. 
Hathaway, Sarah E. . 
Haulman. William H. 

Hauser, Joseph 

Hawes, Lillian 0 



Batavia 

Chicago 

Shiloh Hill . 
Moi eland. .. 
Athens 



Nilwood . . . 

Manito 

Chicago 

Lexington. 
Palestine . . 



Rush Creek Tp. 

Hutsonville 

South Grove 

Waynes villa 

Browning 



tale 

Havana 

West Belleville 

Humrick 

LaSalle 



Carthage. . . . 

Peoria 

Decatur 

Pittsfleld ... 
Metropolis. 



Chicago 

Moi eland 

Irvington 

Nokomis 

Fountain Green. 



Robinson 

Gibson City.. . 

Fairfield 

Polo 

Beaver Creek. 



Milburn 

Jacksonville 
Wilmington . 

Girard 

Byron 



Byron 

Bell Air.... 
Boll Air.... 
Chicago ... 
Janesville , 



Chicago . . . 
Danville . . . 
Lovington, 

Quincy 

Chicago . . . 



1875 
1891 
1872 



Kane 

Cook 

Randolph 

Cook il884 

Menard 1890 



Macoupin , 

Mason 

Cook 

McLean .. , 
Crawford.. 



Wayne 

Crawford . 
DeKalb . . . 
DeWitt ... 
Schuyler... 



Jasper 

Mason 

St. Clair . . , 
Vermilion 
LaSalle 



Hancock. 
Peoria . . . 
Macon . . . 

Pike 

Massac . . 



Cook. 



Washington.. 
Montgomery. 
Hancock 



Danville Vermilion 

Modena Stark 

Jacksonville iMorgan 

Roekton Winnebago... 

Robinson Crawford 



St, Elmo 

Wyanet 

Paxton 

New Bremen Cook 

Chicago 



Crawford.. 

Ford 

Wayne ... 

Ogle 

Clinton . .. 



Lake 

Morgan . . . 

Will 

Macoupin 
Ogle 



Ogle 

Crawford., 



Cook 

Macounin 



Fayette.. 
Bureau . 
Ford . . . . 



Cook 

Vermilion 
Moultrie.., 

,\dams 

Cook 



1864 
1863 
1887 
1871 
1873 

1881 
1864 
1863 
1846 
1886 

1S87 
1874 
1874 
1883 
1882 

1880 
1879 
1885 
1878 
1863 

1885 
1887 
1869 
1873 
1858 

1880 
1882 
18611 
1861 
1S74 

1870 
1877 
1879 
1861 
1859 

1887 
1854 
1867 
1887 
1887 

1884 
1874 
1868 
1874 
1871 

1880 
1878 
1869 
1855 
1864 

18<9 
1883 
1876 
1849 
187S 



D.R.,1887 
D.R.,1892 
D.B.,1884 
H.D.,1892 
R.S.,1891 

H.D..1866 
H.D..1869 



D.R.,1876 
G., 1885 

D.R.,1891 

G. , 1866 
H D.,1870 

H. D.,1850 



D.R.,1891 
G., 1879 
G., 1886 



D.R.,1891 



D.R..1887 



G.. 1891 
D.R.,1866 



10 
12 

12 

8 
12 
10 
13 

15 

8 
12 
26 
10 

9 
15 

9 
17 

16 H.D.,18b6 



R.S.,1876 
D.R.,1881 
D.B.,1860 

D.R.,1891 
D.B.,I!>92 
H.U., 18711 
H.D.,1S65 
H.D.,1886 

D.R.,1884 
D.R.,1882 

G. . 1892 

H. D.,186.^ 



G. , 1866 

H. D..1876 



D.R ,1884 
D.R.,18S0 
D.R.,1881 
G., 18sl 



D.R.,1 
D.B.,1887 
H.D ,1879 
15i D.R. ,1856 
91 D.R.,1876 



10|D.R.,1 
...'R,S.,188K 
16 D,R,,1884 
15 H.D. ,1853 
9 G., 1 



— Continued. 



79 



831 
8:52 
833 
834 
835 

836 
837 
838 
839 
840 

841 
842 
843 
844 
845 

846 
81 
81 
849 

851 
852 
853 
854 
855 

856 
857 
858 
859 
860 

861 

^62 
863 
864 
865 

8G6 
867 
868 
869 
870 

871 

872 
873 
874 
875 

876 
877 
878 
879 
880 

881 

882 
883 
884 



887 
888 
889 
890 



Deafness- 
Cause. 


Age. 


Deaf Relatives. 


Consan- 
guinity OF 
Paeents... 


Remarks. 


opmaii m6niiigitis.. 




























7 years.. 


U 






Spinal meningitis . 
















Dropsy of brain — 








AT'rl H TYi /9rtQfi^ 












14 years. 


C 




M'd d. m 








MVl f\ m IJ.A7\ 
























J. ^7 p n r G 


Sr 














5vl^^^Ql moninryitic 










8 mo's 










Sr 










i-l-PT*r»i Q n 


Spinal meningitis.. 


3)^ years 










































Paralysis 






























Fall 


















Spinal flisease 






























Gattiering in ears. , 












3 








Scarlet fever 


1>6 years 
B 


















B 












n 






Bui n 










Gold in head 




c 




M'd d. m. (373) , 






















1 Oil i^rip, bCdlU IltJcilJ 

Scarlet fever 


















Spinal meningitis.. 










R 










0 mo^s. . . 
4 mo s . . . 
9 mo's.. . 










2 Srs. (877), 22d C (2110i(21]2) 


3d Cs 
3d Cs 




Bilious fever 




Sickness 














Sp nal meningitis . 
Spinal meningitis.. 




























Cutting teeth 










Gathering in head- 


2 years.. 
B 


Br. (886) 






Sr. (885) 




Md. d. m. (146) 


Spinal meningitis.. 
Spinal meningitis . . 




















B 








Water on brain 








MU d. m. (1254) 



80 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



PosTorricE 
Address. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode op 
Dis- 

CHA.EGE. 



urn 

Si 

: 7 



891 Hay, Alva Vernon. 

892 Hayden. Emma 



893 
894 
895 

896 
897 



899 
900 

901 
902 

9oa 

904 
905 



Hayes, Joseph. 
Hayes, Robert. 
Haynes, Adam. 



Hazzard, Edgar J. 
Head, Mary C 



Heady, John W 

Heady, Mary Elizabeth. 
Heaton, Ephraim 



Heavy, John 

HeberJing, Mary L. 
Hedriek, Mary E... 
Heene. RudoJphE. 
Hegg, Fannie 



906 Heikman, Sarah. . . 
^)07 Heimeyer, Mamie. 
908 Heinlein. John.. . . 
909!Heiiiold, Jacob.... 
910 Heinz, Matthew. . . 



911 Heinz, Peter.... 
912iHeitz. Nicholas 
913 Held, Jacob 



914 

915 



Heldourg, Sophia,] 
Helmick Emerson., 



916 Hemphill, Margaret , 

917 Hendi ax, Martha E. 

918 Hendrixsou, Simeon . 

919 Henken Caroline 

920 Henker. Louis H. C. . 



921 Henkle, AnnaT 

922 Heuning, Marg. Dorathea. 

923 Hennintr, Minnie M. H.... 



924 
925 

•926 
927 
928 
929 
930 

931 

932 
933 
934 
935 

936 
937 
938 
939 



Heninger, Oliver. 
Henrick, Bernard Leo., 



Henricks, Sarah... 
Henry. Augusta J. 

Henry, Clara E 

Henry, Mary E 

Hensel, Henry 



Herb, William C 

Herd man. Lulu O 

Herring, Tliomas W. 
Herron. William H... 
Hess. Elizabeth C ... 



Hetherington, Samuel W 

Henron. Maggie 

Hewitt. Kate 

Heywood, William. 



■940jHibbard, Charles B . 

94j|Hibbard, Ernest M.. 

942iHiclvman, James 

943 Hicks. William . 
944 
945 



Hieronymus, Margaret. 
Higgins, Seneca L 



946 Hildebrand, Anna. 

947iHilKars, John 

948iHill, Clarissa J.... 

949 Hill, Henry 

950lHill, Lyman 



Jacksonville 
Jacksonville 
Millersville... 

Chicago 

Medora 



Sumner. 
Alton . .. 



Wakefield . 
Silverton ., 
Peoria 



Chicago 

Princeville . 

Zif 

Chicago 

Lemont 



Macomb 

Lively Grove. 

Chicago 

Chicago 

Chicago 



Chicago ... 

Aurora 

Chicago ... 
Steelevillo. 
Litchfield. . 



Oliver 

Paradise 

Matt o on 

Chicago 

New Hampton , 



Springfield 

Stone Church. 



Toledo. 
Joliet . . 



Lanark 

Attila 

Cooperstown 

ivToline 

Chicago 



Alton 

Assumption.. 

Bushneil, 

Centre 

Ottawa 



Detroit 

Chicago 

Mechaniesburg . 

Chicago 

Geneseo 



Plainfleld.... 

Rushville 

Jacksonville.. 

Minier 

Jacksonville,. 



Warsaw . 
Galena. .. 
Danville . 
Alton. ... 
Mt. Erie. 



Morgan. . . 

Christian.. 

Cook 

Macoupin 



Lawrence . . . 
Madison 



Richland 

Jasper 

Peoria ... 



Cook... 
Peoria . 
Wayne. 
Cook... 
Will .... 



McDonough. 
Washington.. 
Cook 



Cook 

Kane 

Cook 

Randolph 

Montgomery, 



Edgar. 
Coles... 



Cook 

Madison . ... 

Sangamon.. . 
Washington.. 



Mason. 
Will ... 



Carroll 

Williamson. . 

Brown 

Rock Island.. 
Cook 



Madison 

Christian 

McDonough. 

Schuyler 

LaSalle 



Pike 

Conk 

Sangamon. 

Cook 

Henry 



Adams 

Schuyler., 
Morgan. .. 
Tazewell , 
Morgan.... 



Hancock . . 
JoDaviess.. 
Vermilion . 
Madison.... 
Wayne 



1885 
1880 
1888 
1885 
1870 

1869 
1853 

1867 
1891 
1866 

1883 
1879 
1880 
1879 
1887 

1851 
1890 
1867 
1884 
1890 

1887 
1881 
1867 
1886 
1868 

1880 
1857 
1886 
1880 
1869 

1800 
1887 
1887 
1883 
1854 

1868 
1888 
1877 
1857 
18>7 

1882 
1877 

18&5 
1860 

1854 
1885 
1882 
1875 
1860 

18W 
1874 
1857 
1873 
1853 

18«ii 
1878 
1868 
1878 
1879: 



G., 1884 



D.R., 1880 

D.R.,1884 

G. . 1859 

H. D..1876 



H.D.,1876 



... D.R.,1887 
11 D.R.,1892 
10 R,S.,1888 
10 D.R.,1882 
10 



D.R.,1851 



D.R.,]S78 
D.R.,1886 



D.R.,1891 
D., 1875 



D.R.,1876 



H.D.,1864 



9 
10 

9 
10 

10 
10 

9 
9 
10 

10 
10 
6 
14 
10 

11 
11 

111 H.D.,1887 
15 H.D.,1862 
7 



R.S.,1884 
D.R.,1876 

H.D.,1872 



D.R.,1884 
H.U.,1864 

H.D.,1877 



8D.. 

9G., 

7 
14 
20 



1883 
1 



H.D ,1866 
H.D.,1865 



D.R.,1886 
G., 18.6 



D.R.,1881 
H.D.,1867 
G.. 11 
D.R.,1855 

D.R.,1862 
D.R.,1878 
D.R.,1879 
D.R,.1884 
D.R.,1891 



— Continued. 



81 



891 

8!I2 
893 
894 
895 

896 
897 



899 
900 

901 
902 
903 
9U4 
90.5 

90(1 
907 
908 
909 
910 

911 

912: 
918 
91 1 
915 

91(1 
917 
918 
919 
920 

921 



92() 
927 , 
928 

929 : 

930 1 

931 : 

932 I 
933 
931 
935 I 

93(5 1 

937 I 

938 : 
939 

940 : 

941 

942 . 

943 1 

944 : 

945: 

046 
947 
9481 
949 
950 I 



Deafness. 


Deaf Relatives. 


CONSAN- 

guinii t of 
Parents... 


Remaeks. 


Caus© . 


Age. 






















Spinal meningitis. . 


1)6 years 


































Congesiive chill. .. 








M'd. a raan not deaf. Be- 
came teach'r in Miss. Inst. 
English : M'd d. m. (2028) . . 
























Ene-lifih 


Spinnl menineitis, . 








Spinal meningitis. . 


















German 














2>6 years 


































German, m'd d. m. (116iJ) . 
German 














Br. '(9ii) 




German 




2 years.. 


Til. /Q1/l\ 












German 






















Dropsy in liead 

Cold 






Cs... 


Killed on railroad 








Congestive fever... 


12 years. 






M'd d. m. (192) 






























B 










2 years.. 

3 years.. 














German 


Sickness 


























M'd d. m 






















r allniK m water . .. 
















German 












Spinal meningitis , 








M'd d. m. (377) 


Whooping cough.. . 
Catarrhal fever .... 


13 years. 
16 mo's.. 


















German, m'd d.m. (501) ... 


Sickness 


3J6 years 






Spinal meningitis.. 
























M'd d. m. (769) 










































Diphtheria 


9 mo's. .. 








Intlamati'n of brain 




























17 years. 


A 


2d Cs 










Spinal meningitis.. 











82 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



PdSTOFFCE 

Addbess. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 

Dis- 
charge. 



9.51 Hillyer, Lillie Bell 

952 Himmelshim, Abram. 
953|Himmelshim, Simon . 

954 Hisey, Thomas 

955 Hixson, Almlra S 



956 Hixson, George W. 



957 
958 



959 
960 

961 

962 
963 
964 
965 

966 
967 
968 
96; I 
970 



Hixson, Milton B , 
Hixson, Sabina . ., 



Hodgeman. Leonard . 
Hodgson. Mary 



Hoener, Julia A 

Hoffman, Catharine 
Hoffman, Perry C .. 
Hogan, Jogephine .. 
Hogan, Michael 



Hohl, William 

' lohn, William David. 

Hukanson, John A 

Hokanson, John F.. . . 
Hoibrook, William 



971 Hollani, John 

972 Holleran, John W. 



973 
97J 
975 

976 
977 
978 
97!) 
980 

981 
982 
983 
984 
985 

986 
987 
988 
989 
990 



Holliday, Marion. 
HoUister. Lntitia E. 
Holmes, Edward P. 



Holt, Annie 

Holton, James 

Roman, William 

Hope, Joseph 

Hopkins, Caroline... 

Horton, Francis M... 

Horton, John E 

Hostey, William A... 
Hotchkiss, Mary A,. 
Houghton, Sarah A 



Householder, Valeta. 
Houston. Clarence... 

Houston, Mary A 

Hover, Caroline C .. . 
Howard, Nancy J... 



991 Howatt, Charles B. 

992 Howe, Edward F... 



993 
99. 
995 

996 
997 
998 
999 
1000 

1001 
1002 
1003 
1004 
1005 

1006 
1007 
10118 
1001 
1010 



Howe, Orissa II. 
Howland. Henry T. 
Huay, Kuth A 



Hubbard, Mary E 

Hubbard, Thomas M, 

Huber, George 

Huber, Mary 

Huff, Barbara 



Huff, Hiram 

Huff, John 

HufI', Lee 

Huff, Louis 

Huffman, Deckla. 



Huffman, Jeremiah. 
Huffman, Joseph , .. 
Huffman, William. .. 

Hugg, Henry 

Hughes, Mary E 



Macomb . 
Chicago... 



Zanesville. 
Yorktown . 



Yorktown , 



Victoria .. 
Tremont. . 

Waterloo , 
Benson.... 

Polo 

Paxton . . , 
Chicago... 



Nauvoo 

Washburn. 
Lynn 



Channahon. 



Bloomington. 

Chicago 

Bath 

DeKalb 

Como 



Say brook 

Sweetwater.. 
Chicago 



Chenoa . 



Creston 

Hickory Hill . 

Mattoon 

Otiawa 

Union Hill..., 



Springfield . 



Turner... 
Warren.. 
Quincy.. 



Peoria 

Cairo 

Peoria 

Waukegan . 
Chicago 



Stirrup Grove. 

Waverly 

Freeport 

Brighton 

Salem 



Salem. 



Belleville , 
Winfleld.. 



Grandview . 



McDonough.. 
Cook 



Montgomery.. 
Bureau 



Bureau , 



1886 
1891 
1891 
1879 
1863 

1865 



Knox 

Tazewell 



Monroe 

Woodford .. 

Ogle 

Fori 

Cook 



Baden Baden 
Fairbury 



1881 10 
1859 16 



Hancock . . 
Woodford . 
Henry 



Will., 



McLean ... 

Cook 

Mason 

DeKalb .... 
Whiteside. 



McLean. 
Menard.. 
Cook 



MaLean 



Ogle 

viarion 

Coles 

LaSalle 

Kankakee 

Sangamon 

DuPage 

JoDaviess 

\dams 

Peoria 

Alexander 

Peoria 

Lake 

Cook 

Macoupin 

Stephenson... 

Macoupin 

Marion 

Marion 

St. Clair 
DuPage 

Edgar 

Bond . 

Livingston . . . 



1858 
1883 

1881 
1H79 
1870 
1869 
1879 

18'ifl 
1891 
1866 
1862 
1S90 

1874 
1878 
1859 
1875 
1831 

1882 
1864 
1891 
1879 
1881 



1851 
1857 
1859 
1872 

1883 
1874 
1864 
1861 
1873 

1856 
1881 
1857 
1856 
1868 

1867 
1862 
188; 
1884 
1886 

1886 
1886 
1886 
1860 
1860 

1846 
1846 
1852 
1882 
1875 



R.S.,1880 
D.. 1871 

D.R.,1873 

H.D.,1870 

H.D.,1867 



I 

26'd.R ,1860 
12iD.B.,1891 

17G.. 1884 
11'D.R.,18S4 

18 D.B.,1876 
n{D.B.,1876 

19 G., 1880 



D.B.,1876 
H.D.,1867 



10 G,, 1881 
8lD.B.,1887 
18|D.B.,1860 
U D.B.,1882 
10 G., 1863 

13D.K.,1891 
12:H.D.,1866 



8!D.B.,1H91 
13D., 1885 

lo!n.B.,1889 
1:VH.D.,1865 
9:D., 1865 
9,G., 1868 

11 G., 1884 

13 B. 8., 1881 

12 D.E.,1881 
I0|H.D.,1874 

12 D.. 1863 

13 D.B.,1880 



H.D.,186t 
1).R.,1886 
H.D.,186, 
D.E.,1860 
H.D.,1874 



11 D.E.,1872 
13D.H.,1871 
15 D.B.,1891 
19;D.B.,1891 
15 



7' 

Ill 

13 

10 H.D.,V59 
14 H.D.,1869 



H.P.,18,57 
H.D..1854 
H.D.,1857 
D E.,1887 
D.B..1880 



83 



— Continued. 



2; 

c 

w 


Deafness. 


Deaf Relatives. 


|»- c 0 


Remarks. 


w 


Cause. 


Age. 


2! H ^ 

?o ' 
• 1^ 


951 


Spinal disease 










952 




B 


Br. (2531 






953 




B 








9.j4 












!I55 


Bowel complaint .. 


18 mo's.. 


2Brs. (956). (957), Sr. (758). 


4th C 


Remote ancestor o( mr. d'f. 


956 
■957 


Gathering in head. 


1 year.... 
6 mo's. .. 


Br. (956). 2 Srs. (955), (958). 
2 Srs. (955), (958), Br. (956). 
2Brs. (956), (957), Sr. (935). 


4th C 
4th C 


M'd d. m. (1815): remote 
ancestor of mother deaf. 

M'd d. m. (2220); remote 
ancestor of mother deaf. 

M'dd. m. (215i; 3 children d. 
and d. (216i (217) (219); re- 
mote ancest'r of mr. deaf 




3 years.. 


4th C 


959| Fever 


•9G0i Catarrh 










■9(ilj Scarlet fever 










■962'Spinal meningitis . 
9()S Scarlet fever 














C... 




1)64 


Siclvness 








965 












9C6 


Diphtheria 


years 








•967 










968 






C. (969) 






fl«9 


Apoplexy 


10 mo's . . 


C. (968) 




Swede 


970 


Fall 










971 


Spinal meningitis.. 










972 










973 


Fall 


2 years 








974 




1^ years 
1^ years 








975 


Cold 






M'd d. m. (1275) 


976 








M'dd.m. (725) 


977 












978 




1J6 years 








979 




c 






980 






Pr., Mr 






981 






U 






982 




B 






M'd d. m. (1264) 


983 












984 


Gathering in head. 


1 year.... 


Br 




M'd d. m. (1356) 


985 










986 


Scarlet fever 










987 


Spinal meningitis . 
h'ever _ _ _ _ 


IH years 








988 






989iAs'ne _ 






1 


990 












991 1 Brain fever 








English; m'dd. m. (148)... 










993 




B. 






M'd d. m. (743) 


■J941 Scarlet fever 


1% years 








995 










996 




B. 








997 _ _ 


B 








998 


Spinal meningitis . . 










999 


B 








1000 




18 mo's.. 


3 Brs. (1001), (1002), (1003) 






1001 




B 


Sr. (1000), 2 Brs.(1002),(I003) 
2 Brs. 1000) (1008), Sr, (1001) 
Sr. (1001), 2 Brs. (1000) (1002) 






1002 




B 






1003 




B. 






1004 


Pall 


2)6 mo's. 






1005 








German; m'd d. m. (258)... 


1006 




B 






1007 




B 








1008 




B. 








1009 


Spinal meningitis . 
Spinal meningitis . 










1010 











84 



List ol Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Address. 



County of 

llESIDENCE. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 

Dis- 
charge. 



■ H 



1011 
1012 
1013 
1014 
1015 

1016 
1017 
1018 
1019 
1020 

1021 
1022 
1023 
102+ 
1025 



Hulet, Peter V 

Hull. Elizabeth 

Hulstrand, Olof Larson 

Humes, John F 

Hunter, George. 



Huntington, Jo«ephus 

Hurley, Marv E 

Husbands, Thomas J. . 

Hussey, Charles 

Hussey. Henry H 



Hutsel, John 

Hynian, Fredo 

Hyman, Gussie 

Imboden, Elizabeth . 
Ingalls, Lyman 



1026 Innes, Alexander. 



1027 
1028 
102K 
1030 



Innes, Elizabeth E 
Innes, James G. . . . 

Irmen. Michael 

Irvine, George 



lOSl Irving, Muttie .... 
1032 Irwiii, Martha C. . 

10!3 Isaacs. John 

lOSi lsler, Edgar 

1033ilverson, Lilhe M. 



1030 Jackson, Alma M 

1037 Jackson, Benjamin Franklin. 
10381 Jackson, Geneva Bell 

1039 Jaeoba, Cora 

1040 Jacobson, Axel 



1041 
1042 
1013 
104-1 
1045 



Jacoby, Adolph . .. . . 
Jacoby, Caroline W 

Jacoby, Louis C 

Jacoby, Philip 

Jalageas, Francois . 



104G James, Alonzo 

1047 Jame^, Charles W 



1048 
1049 
1050 

1051 
1052 
1053 
1054 
1055 

1056 
1057 
1058 
1059 
1060 

1061 
1062 
1063 
106J 
1065 

1066 
1067 
1068 
1069 
1070 



James, David O. 
James. Lawrence P. . 
Janetzky, Herman J 



Jean, Carrie A 

Jessen, Emma Bertha. 

Jeffonls, Alva 

Jenkins. James M 

Jewell, George W 



Johnigan, Helen 

Johnson. Albert 

Johnson, Catharine. 
Johnson, Charles L.. 
Johnson, Charles P.. 



Johnson, Edith 

Johnson. Frank Augustus. 

Johnson, Gustalt H 

Johnson, Gustus O 

Johnson, John L 



Johnson, John L 

Johnson, Joshua 

Johnson, Lillie C 

Johnson, Logan Frank. 
Johnson, Mary A 



Knoxville 

Milton 

Galesburg 

Peoria 

Murphysboro . 



Charleston . . . 

Galesburg 

Butler 

Williamsville . 
Litchlield 



Chicago 



OIney .,, 
Detroit , 



Chicago 



Jefferson... 
Lake View 

Arenzville. 

Cairo 

Louis . . 

Danville 

Chicago 



Fulton 

Rockford 

Athensville 

Fredericksville . 
Joliet 



Jacksonville , 
Mr. Pulaski . 
Brighton . .. . 
Jacksonville 
Nauvoo 



Laoon 

LaHarpe 

Lake Forest 
Prairie City. 
Chicago 



Robinson 

Beeeher 

Naples 

Gallatia 

Pleasant Hill. 



Thebes ... 
Quincy.. .. 
Chicago... 

Elgin 

Kockford . 



Greenbush.. 
Moreland. .. 
Rockford. .. 

Andover 

Chicago 



Richview 

Pithian 

Chicago 

Jacksonville.. 
Lively Grove. 



Knox . . 
Pike .... 
Knox . .. 
Peoria .. 
Jackson 



Coles 

Knox 

Montgomery. 

Sangamon 

Montgomery. 

Cook 



Richland , 
Pike 



Cook. 



Cass 

Alexander 

Misso'ri(state) 
Vermilion . . .. 
Cook 



Whiteside 

Winnebago .. 

Greene 

Schuyler 

Will 



Morgan 

Logan 

Macoupin 

Morgan 

Hancock.. 



Marshall 

Hancock 

Lake 

Mi'Donough.. 
Cook 



Crawford. 

Will 

Seolt 

Saline 

Pike 



Alexander . .. 

Adams 

Cook 

Kane 

Winnebago... 



1856 
1863 
1888 
1876 

1887' 

1870 
1878 
1858 
1879 
1868 

1885 
1875 
1875 
1856 
1816 

1872 
1865 
1864 
1881) 
1885 

1887 
1872 
1848 
1888 
1868 

1S78 
1888 
1882 
1886 
1884 

1870 
1860 
1869 
1861 
1853 

1867 
1862 
1875 
1873 
1891 

1885 
1884 
186:: 
1859 
1860 

1871 
1878 
1884 
1883 
1883 



Warren 1886 

Cook 1885 

Winnebago... 1879 

Henry 1869 

Cook 1867 

Washington.. 1874 
Vermilion ....;1880 

Cook 1891 

Morgan il888 

Washington.. 11863: 



H.D.,1865 
D.R..I864 
H.D.,1889 
G., 1878 



10 



D.R.,1880 
D.R.,188( 
D.R.,1865 
D.R.,1891 
G. 1882 

G., 1889 
G., 1886 

G. , 1888 
D.R.,1865 

H. U.,]850 

D. 1877 
D.. 1869 
DR., 1872 
D.R.,1891 



D.R. 1876 
D.R.1850 



G., 187S 
D.R. 1887 



15 D.R. 1890 

16 D.R. 1891 
11 U.K. 1891 



G. 1883 

H. D. 1869 

G. 1882 

H. D. 1876 

G. , 1866 

H. D. 1869 
G.. 1869 
D.R..1886 
G., 1884 



D.R.,1887 
G.. 1873 
D.R.,1865 
D.R..1866 

G.. 1885 
D.R.,1891 
D.R.,1887 



D.R.,1887 
D.R.,1880 
H.D.,1870 

D.R.,1876 
D.R.,1887 



H.D.,1868 



-Continued. 



85 



Deafness. 
Cause. 1 Age. 


Deaf Relatives. 


Consan- 
guinity OF 
Parents .. 


Remarks. 




3>6 years 


























Whooping cough.. 


15 years. 
























Fall 












B 




C , 














Scald 


9 months 


(-1 
















B 


r> 








B 


C 








B 








Cold 












B 


9 "Ri^Q 








B 








Scarlet fever 


2 years.. 
B 


Br. (1026). Sr. (1027) 
















B 








Gathering in head. 




















B 


















Inflammation brain 












B 








Spinal meningitis . . 
* * 

Spinal fever 
















Md. d. m. (498) 


4 years.. 
B 


















B 


ftf\AO\ Hn mAA\ 




Grerman: m'd woman hear& 
Geiman; m'd d. m. (161). 
German 




B 


O "D-fa /iniO\ tTfiAA\ 




Scarlet fever 


254 years 
B 








0*1 nnAo\ T3 V. nnii\ 




German; m'd d. m. (1078),.. 


Typhoid fever 


















Fever; infla,m.brain 


















Spinal meningitis.. 










Infancy. 








Spinal meningitis.. 
Typhoid fever 
















Scarlet fever 








M'd. a woman who hears. 






















B 










B 


















Burned with lye. .. 


















Catarrh 








































Whooning cough. . 














3d Cs 




Spinal meningitis.. 


















Congestion 


6 weeks. 
B 

















inn 

1012 
1018 
1014 
1015 

1016 
1017 
10 1 8 
1019 
102U 

1021 
1022 
102:J 
1024 
1025 

1026 
1027 
1028 
1029 
1030 

lOSl 

1032 

1033 

103 

1035 

1036 
1037 
1038 
10:^9 
1040 

1041 
1042 
1043 
1044 
1045 

1046 
1047 
1018 
1049 
1050 

1051 
1052 
1053 
1054 
1055 

1056 
1057 
1058 
1059 
1060 

1061 
1062 
1063 
1064 



1066 : 

1067 I 

1068 ■ 

1069 • 
1070 



-8 D. D. 



86 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postofpice 
Address. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 


Mode or 
Dis- 


O 


Age. 


charge. 


a> 





■ n 



1071 
1072 
1073 
1074 
1075 

1076 
1077 
1078 
1079 
1080 

1081 
1082 
1083 
1084 



Johnson, Walter 

Johnson. Washington. 

Jones, Caiharine 

Jones, Charles 

Jones, Clyde Searles. 



Jones, Elzio B .. . 

Jones, Isaac 

Jones, Luella M. 
Jones, Thoma.s J. 
Jones, William B. 



Kaerieher, Lee M. 

Kaiser, Waltin- 

Kalck, Wendel.... 
Kandzia, Matilda . 



Kauffman, Louisa M. 

Keagle, Luella M 

Kearney, Esther. ... 
Keefauver, Jacob R. 
Keeler, Newton 



Keill, Balsar 

Keill, Catharine 

Keill, Peter 

Keller, George A. . 
Kelling, Edward A. 



Kellogg, Chester H. 

Kelly, Ann J 

Kelly, David 

Kelly, George 

Kelly, Mary 



1085 Kane, Morris P.. 



1086 
1087 
1088 

a09O 

1091 
1092 
1093 
1094 
3095 

1096 
1097 
1098 
1(»99 
1100 

1101 
lli):i 
1103 
11"4 

11(10 

\m 

11(17 
1108 
1109 
111(1 

1111 
1112 
1113 
1114 
1115 

1116 
1117 
1118 
1119 
1120 

1121 

1122 
1123 
1124 

112.5 



Kelly. Mary L 

Kelly. Winfleld S.... 

Kemmener, Ida 

Kemp, James 

Kendell, Caroline L. 



Kenna, Thomas P. 
Kennedy, Agnes.. 
Kennedy, Annie L. 
Kennedy. Lydia C. 
Kepner, Mary J 



Kerr, George S 

Kestel, An(jrew 

Kestel, Michael 

Keteham, Marv A 

Kettlecamp, Mary E., 

Kiefer, Myitle Bella., 
Kimmel, Georgiana.. 
Kindred, Elizabeth.. 

Kindred, Maria J 

King, Albert E 



King, Daniel Bailey. 

King, Matthew 

Kingon, Alfred 

Kiugon, Edward E... 
Kingsbury, Williani. 



1126 Kinninson, Mary.. 

1127 Kirkman, Sarah.... 

1128 Kirkpat.ick, Adda. 

1129 Kissner, Alice 

1130 Kjelborg, AnnaL.. 



Aurora 

Lively Grove.. 
Springfield . ... 

Call o 

East St. Louis. 



West Salem. 

Quiney 

Chicago 



Richview... 

Chicago 

Kinmundy , 

VVaverly 

Urbana 



East St. Louis. 



Salem 

Barclay... 
Pittsfleld. 
Canton . . . 
Chicago . 



Washington. 



Morris... 
Carlyle . 

Ottawa . 
Chicago 



Springfield. 



Peoria... 
Chicago. 



Iowa City. 
Chicago... 



Joliet 

Streator . 



Nashville 

Howard's Point. 



Mi (burn , 

New Lenox. 

Priendville.. 
Nokomis 



Camden 

Dixon 

Pontoosuc. 

Fairbury.. . 



Springfield.. 
Chicago 



Walnut Grove . 



Virgennes 

Macomb 

East St. Louis. 

Blue Island 

Rockford 



Kane 

Washington. 
Sangamon.. . 
Alexander.. . 
St. Clair 



Washington. 

Cook 

Marion 

Morgan 

Champaig.i . 



Edwards 
Adams. . . 
Cook 



St. Clair., 



Marion 

Sangamon.. . 

Pike 

Pulton 

Cook 



Tazewell 



Grundy. 
Clinton.. 

LaSalle.. 
Cook.. .. 



Sangamon . 



Peoria . 
Cook... 



Iowa (State).. 
Cook 



Will 

LaSalle. 



Washington . 
Payette 



Lake.. 
Will... 



Wabash 

Montgomery. 



Schuyler.. 

Lee 

Hancock . 



Livingston . .. 

Sangamon 

Cook 



Knox 



■Tackson 

McDonough. 

St. Clair 

Cook 

Winnebago. . 



18891 
1863' 
1849, 
1879 
1891 

1874 
187U 
1872 

1852 
18671 

18791 
1881 
18761 

mt 

1881 

1878! 
1879 
1889 
1875 
1880' 
I 

18501 
1849 
1851 
1867 

1874! 

I 

1852 
1874 
1877, 
1874 
1869 

1874 
1873 
1887 
18.52 
1876 



1886 
1878 
1877 
1852 
1860 

1865 
1876 
1874 
1864 
1877 

1884 
1879 
1860 
1860 
1889 

1886 
1869 
1873 
1865 
1856 

1864 
1851 
1880 
1879 
1867 



D.R.,1887 
D.B.,1883 



D.R.,1887 

G.. 1891 
D.B. 1885 



H.D. 1868 
H.D.,1858 



D.R.,1886 
R. S.,1872 
D.R.,1881 
D.R.,1863 
H.D.,1874 



D.R.,1884 
D.R..1887 

H.D.,1854 
H.D.,1855 
H.D.,1856 

G. , 1879 
Ex., 1884 

H. D.,1860 
D.R.,1881 
D.R. 18SII 
D.R.,1881 
H.D..1880 

R.S. 1880 
H.D.,1876 
D.R.,1S91 
D.R.,1853 
G. 1878 

D.R..1887 
D.R.,18S7 

G. , 1890 

H. D.,1861 
H.D.,1863 

G. , 1874 
D.R.,1886 
D.R..1884 

H. D.,1872 
G., 1889 



R.S.,1884 
H.D. 1865 
H.D. 1865 



G. , 1880 
R.S.,1 

H. D.,1872 

G. , 1860 

H. D. 1865 
D.R. 1851 
D.R.,1881 



G.. 18781 



—Continued. 



87 



S5 

w 

m 



1071 

1072 
107.i : 
1074 
1075 : 

l()7(i 
1077 
1078 
10711 
]080 

IIWI 
108:3 
1083 
1084 

loss 

]08(i 
1087 
1088 
1089 
lO'.IO 

1(91 
1092 
1093 
1094 
1095 

1096 
1(197 
1098 
1099 
1100 

1101 
1102 
1103 
1104 
1105 

1106 
1107 
1108 
1109 
1110 

nil 

1112 

uis 

1114 
1115 

1116 
1117 
1118 
1119 
1120 

1121 
1122 
1123 
1124 
1125 

1126 
1127 
1128 
1129 
1130 



Deafness 
Cause. 


Age. 


Deaf Bblatives. 


CONSAN- 

guinttof 
Parents.. 


Remarks. 


S ic kn &s s 


1 3^ years 






En^^'Hsh 




Br (1070) 




M*d d m 


Br&iD. fevez' 


6 years 






M'd d m (679) 












Psrforftt'n Gjir dr'ni 
Infltirniiiaition ear.. 


years 














B 










B 






M'd d m (1044) 


Coid 










TrifldrCQ. of br3(in .... 
Sickness 


6 mo's 








3 mo's 








tSpinSjl meningitis 








German 


B 






Qerman 




B 






Pole 










Irish 










German 


Spinal meningitis 








M'd d m (1846) 


Unknown 


years 
B 






Irish 






















B 


Br (1093) Sr (1092) 




German *•*. 




B 


2 Br« (1091) (1093) 




German 




B 


Br (1091) 8r (1092) 




German 


Scarlet fever 










Spinal meningitis.. 
Typhoid fever 


7 years 






German 












B 


2 Br (1098) (1099) 




T* -* v ■ * 




B 


2 Br (1094) Hr (1097) 









B 


2 Br. (1098), Sr. (1097) 

















Spina! meningitis. . 


1 VPflT'Cl 






Irish 








Diphtheria 






























Spinal meningitis 
Brain fever 










J. /]£ Jl ViCLL O 


Sr (1108) 




Iri^h 


Spinal meningitis . 


Sr (1107) 














B 


4 2d Cs 






ho oping cough 








Scotch ' m'd d m (52) 




B 


Br (1113) 








B 


Br (1112^ 




r-rPrm H Ti 












Inflamati'n of brain 








f iftfrn Q n 


B 










fl "^7 ft Q V G 










B 


Fr., Sr. (1119) 








B 








Deformity of ears. 
Spinal meningitis.. 






































2 years.. 


Br. (1123) 




Englisli; m'd d. m. (1554).. 


Fall 






Cold, gath'ngin h'd 




































B. 


Br. (hSl) 1 


Swede; m'dd.m. (1237).... 



88 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Addbess. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 
Dis- 

CHABGE. 



1131 
1132 
1133 
1134 
1135 

1136 
1137 
1138 
1139 
1140 

1141 
1142 
1143 
1144 
1145 

1146 
1147 
1148 
1149 
1150 

1151 
1152 
1153 
1154 
1155 



Kjelborg, Levin 

Kieiber, Joseph J... 

Klutr, Anna M 

Kneis, Margaret A.. 
Kniekhren, Sophia. 



Knight. Louisa J.... 
Kuighthart, MarkC. 

Koehn. Tillie 

Koenig, Christolf 

Koenig, George M... 



Koesel, Mary E 

Kohn, Kaim 

Kohn, Theodore 

Kombrink, Annie P. 
Korethe, Frederika.. 



Koser, John M 

Krantz, John L 

Ki anz, Jacob Arthur. 
Krapp, William J. J. . . 
Kraus, Alois 



Kreider, Bertie E 

Krejca, John 

Kreuger, Juhus 

Kricheldorf, Louis 

Krueger, Henry August. 



1156 Kubeak, Frances. 
11571 Kuehen, John. 
1158 
1159 
1160 



1161 
1162 
1163 
1164 
1165 

1166 
1167 
1168 
1169 
1170 

1171 
1172 
1173 
1174 
1175 

1176 
1177 
1178 
1179 
1180 

1181 
1182 
1183 

1184 
1185 

1186 
1187 
1188 
1189 
1190 



Kruse Christian 

Kug eman, John George . 
LaCIair, Clara' 



Lahman. Joseph .. 
Laingor. Leonard., 
Laird, Harriet A .. 

Lake, Maria J 

Lake, Mary 



Lambert, Ellen M 

Lambert, Onisiami 

Lamme, JohnlH 

Lammert, Henry William . 
La Motte William , 



Landes, Dora Belle., 

Landolt, Edwin 

Lannlng, George 

LaPanse, Louis 0. . 
Lareau, Aime 



Larson, Carl Oscar. 

Lathrop, Harry 

Lathrop, Mamie E . 
Latimer, Nancy J. . . 
Latteri, James S . . . 



Laughlln, Charles H. 
Laughlin, Franklin . . . 
Laughlln, John R 



Lawder, Bessie G. 
Lawder, Letitia . .. 



Lawder, Paul 

Lawrence, WilUam Marshall 

Lawson, Charles Elmer , 

Lebherz, William E 

Lebkuecher, William 



Rockford 

Allen 

Belleville 

Peoria 

Green Garden. 

Plumfleld 

Momence 

Lincoln 

LaSrtlle 

Urbana 

Chicago 

Casey ville 

Chicago 

Cedaiville 

Blue Island 

Wheeling 

Coal Valley.... 
Chicago 

Chicago 

Chicago 

Peoria 

Moreland 

Chicago 

Coal Valley.... 

Ashley 

Mascoutah . . . . 
Sparta 

Farmington .. . 

Chicago 

Spring Hill 

Bloomingdale. 

Chicago 

St. George. ... 

Pontoosuc 

Venice 

Chicago 

Lynnville 

Preeport 

Coatsburg 

East St. Louis 
Beaversville . . 

Durand] 

Chicago 

New Bedford . 
Petersburg. .. . 
Canton .| 

Quincy 

Peoria 

Rockwood 

Peoria 

Jacki^onville . . 

Orion 

Chicago 

Beardstown... 



Winnebago .. 

LaSalle 

St. Clair 

Peoria 

Will 

Franklin 

Kankakee 

Logan 

LaSalle 

Champaign. .. 
Cook 

St. Ciair;;!."!! 
Cook 

Stephenson... 
Cook 

Rock island.. 
Cook 

Cook 

Cook 

Peoria 

Cook 

Cook 

Rock Island.. 
Washington.. 

St. Clair 

Randolph 

Effingham 

Cook 

Whiteside".. .. 
DuPage 

Cook 

Kankakee .. .. 

Hancock 

St. Clair 

Cook 

Scott 

Stephenson..,. 

Adams 

St. Clair 

IroQuois 

Winnebago. .. 

Cook 

Bureau 

Menard 

Pulton 

Adams 

Peoria 

Randolph 

Peoria 

Morgan 

Henry 

Cook 

Cass 



1870 
1869 
1879 
1874 
1878 

1876 
1881 
1885 
1881 
1874 

1875 
1888 
1870 
1891 
1866 

1868 
18L0 
1886 
1885 
1891' 



1873 
1887: 
1887 

1888 
1874 
1891 
1886 
1869 

1865 
1885 
1859 
1868 
1857 

1878 
1882 
1854 
1886 
1879 

1886 
1880 
1879 
1876 
1879 

1887 
1882 
1881 
18ti2 
1856 

1846 
1851 
1856 

1878 
1878 

1883 
1887 
1890 
1879 
1885 



R.S.,1881 
D R.,1880 
G., 1890 
G. 1884 
D.R. 1886 



15 D.R. 1880 
9|D.R.,1891 



15D.R.,1891 
17 D.R.,1883 



10 G. 1886 n 

12 i 

9 D.R. 1876 I 

9 1 

10H.D.1874 6- 



13 H.D.1872 
10 H.D.1866 
17 D.R. 1887 
12 
18 



D.R,, 1891 



D.R.,1884 



D.R.,1881 



H,D„1874 

H.D.,1871 
D.R.,1889 
D.R.,1866 

G. , 1879 
17 H.D.,1868 

9D.R.,1888 
11D.R..1887 

H. D..1858 
D.R.,1891 
D.R.,1888 



D.R ,1891 
D.R.,1881 
D.R.,1886 
D.R.,1887 



13 

14 D.R. 

13 D.R.,1886 

14 H.D.,1869 
28 G., 1860 



G., 1859 

G. 1862 

H. D..1865 

G. 
D.R.,1888 

1887 



18 G. 
9 
12 

10 D.R..1892 

9 



— Continued. 



89 



i mi 

I 1132 
I 1133 
1134 
1135 

1136 
1137 
1138 
1139 
1140 

1141 
1142 
1143 
1144 
1145 

114tj 
1147 
1148 
1149 
1150 

1151 
1152 
1153 
1154 
1155 

115« 
1157 
1158 
1159 
IKiO 

1161 
1162 
1163 
1164 
1165 

1166 
1167 
1168 
1169 
1170 

1171 
1172 
1173 
1174 
1175 

1176 
1177 
1178 
1179 
1180 

1181 
1182 
1183 

1184 
1185 

1186 
1187 
1188 
1189 
1190 



Dkafness 
CSiUse. 


Age, 




Consan- 
guinity OF 
Pabents . . 


T? "CUT * T> TT" C! 
Xb Hi IVL A XV li. O . 














2ii years 








Spinal meningiti-; . 
Cancer 
























German; m'dd. m. (78) 










Spinal meningitis . . 












B 










B 










B 






German 














1^6 years 
B 










Br 
























German; m'd d. m. (771).... 

German 


Spinal meningitis . 














German 












Whooping cough.. 


















































4J6 years 
2J6 year- 








Sickness 








Typhoid fever 


















Summer complaint 


1 ^ years 
IMi years 




















Colored, md. man not d... 




















Cold 














Sr. (1165) 










Sr. (1164) 




Gei man. M'dd. m. (28U)... 
German. M'd d. m. (908) 


Spinal meningitis . . 


2)6 years 




















Brain fever 






















B 




























Gathering in head. 
Spinal meningitis 






































opinal meningitis . . 






















B 






Md. d. m. (2231) became a 
teacher in Ind. Institute. 




B 


2 Brs. (1182). (1183), 8 2d Cs. 
2 Brs. (1181), (1183), 3 2d Cs 

2 Brs. (USD, (1182). 3 2d Os 

3 Brs. (1186 






B 




M'd d. m. (511) 




B 




M'd d. m. (1765) became a 
teacher in III. Institute.. 


Gathering in head. 
Measles 




Cs 












B 


Sr. (1184), 2 Brs 


Cs... 


M'd a woman who hears .. 


Spinal meningitis.. 






B 


















Spinal meningitis.. 


4 years.. 


C 







90 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Addeess. 



County or 
Besidence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 
Dis- 

CHABGE 



■ H 



1191 
1192 
1193 



Lee, Grace 

Lee, John 

Lee, Margaret. 

1194:Lee, Marv 

1195 Lee, Sarah 



1196!Lee, Susan. 
il97 
1198 
1199 
1200 



Lecroy, Miles 

Leitch, Charles 

Lemaster, (Clarence. 
Lender, William 



1201 Leon, Meyer 

1202iLeonard, Elisha 

1203 Leonard, Martin B. 

1204 Levi. Atta 

1205 Levi, Edward 



1206 
1207 
1208 
1209 
1210 



Lewis, Laura J. .. 

Lewis, Louisa 

Lewis, William C 
Leyder, Helena B. 
Liebert, George... 



1211 Lies, Margaret 

1212 Lighter, William Dallas.. 
12i:ijLimage, Charles LaClare. 

7214 Lindeau, Kichard 

1215Linehan, John 



1210 
1217 
1218 



Springfield , 

Chicago 

Quincy 

Chicago 

Batavia 



Quincy 

Cisne 

Mattoon 

Marbletown . .. 
French Village., 



Chicago 
York .... 
Athens . 
Chicago 



Low Point 

Danville 

Cape Girardeau. 

Chicago 

Chandlei-yille . .. 



Aurora . . 
Mt. Zion. 
Hanover. 
Chicago . 



Lingouski, Juliana Chicago 

Linn, Bertha Mascoutah.. 

Linxwiller, Charles H iHurricane ... 

1219 Lisle, Telva Julia iWashington. 

122'* Liston, Mary Minonk 



1221 
1222 
1223 
1224 
1225 

1226 

12:!7 
1228 
1229 
1230 

1231 
1232 
1233 
1234 
1235 

1236 
1237 
1238 
12.39 
1210 

1241 
1242 
1243 
1244 
1245 



Litherland, Clyde D. 
Litherland. Norman. 

Litzen.Mary A 

Livesay, Benjamin F. 
Lloyd, Eva 



Lobsinger, Edward Tator... 

Lobsinger. Jacobina A 

Loer. Jessie Howard 

Logan, Charlotte 

Lohman, Henry 



Long, Brainard. 

Long. Celsus 

Long, Eugene C. 
Long, John G. . . 
Long, Lillie B. .. 



Long, Minnie W. S 

Long, Parker 

Longbranch, Anna M. 

Lord, James A 

Lott. Alice 



Loueks, Mary A 

Louis, Anna 

Love, Harry O 

Lovejoy, Susan. ... 
Lowe, Benjamin D. 



1246 Lowman, Georgia 

1247 Lowrie, Catherine H 

1248 Louther, William 

1249|Luckey, Alexander 

1250lLunde, Hendrika Maria, 



Grayville . 



Rock Island 

Biehview 

Jarvis Township 



Hudson 

Bloomington. 
Waynesville .. 

Dakota 

Hummerfleld.. 



Seiota. ... 
Enfield . . 
Payson .. 
Macomb. 



Bockford. . 
Pavson .... 
Chiciigo ... 

Dougla-^ 

Moniicello. 



Hillsboro . 
Falmouth 

Salem 

Tremont.. 
Lowder. .. 



Jacksonville . 
South Macon. 

Paris 

Kewanee 

Ransom 



Sangamon... 

Cook 

Adams 

Cook 

Kane 

Adams 

Wayne 

Coles 

Fulton 

St. Clair 

Cook 

Clark 

Menard 

Cook 

Woodford ... 
Vermilion ... 
Missouri (St.). 

Cook 

Cass 



Kane 

Macon 

JoDaviess.. . 
Cook 



Cook 

St. Clair 

Montgomery. 

Tazewell 

Edwards 



White. 



Rock Island. 
Washington. 
Madison 



McLean 



DeWitt 

Stephenson . 
St. Clair 



McDonough. 

White 

A'laras 

McDonough. 



Winnebago 

Adams 

Cook 

Knox 

Piatt 



Montgomery. 

Jasper 

Marion 

Tazewell 

Sangamon 



Morgan. 
Miicon .. 
Edgar... 
Henry . . 
LaSalle . 



1884 
1870 
1855 
1872 
1868 

1848 
1881 
1876 
1884 
1887 

1891 
1846 
1847 
1866 
1867 

1883 
1877 
1854 
1888 
1851 

1868 
1888 
1889 
1885 
1878 

1882 
1888 
1856 
1886 
1880 

1880 
1880 
1866 
1851 
1881 



1885 
1884 
1863 
1878 

1873 
18m 
1877 
1859 
1867 

18 

1862 

im 

1882 
189: 

1865 
1886 
1881 
1845 
1877 

1872 
1863 
1873 
1877, 

1890; 



D.B.,1880 
D.R.,1890 
D.R.,ir- 

G. , 1879 

H. D.,1858 
D.B.,11 
D.R.,1874 



H.D.,1854 
D.H.,1854 
D R.,1876 
D.R.,1880 

D.R.,1884 
D.R..1887 
H.D.,1855 



D.R.,18P3 
D.R.,1876 



D.R.,1886 



D.R.,1887 
D.R.,1891 
D.R.,1857 



10 
15 
12 
11 

9 D.R.,1891 

12 D.R..1887 
14 D.R.,1887 
H.D.,1868 
H.D.,1864 



H.D.,1866 
H.D.,1889 



9D.R.,1 
16 

D.R.,1886 
G., 1867 
G., 1878 



D.R.,1863 



G. , 1873 



R.S.,1883 
H.D.,1851 
H.D ,1888 

R.S.,18?4 
H.D.,1869 
D.B.,1880 
Ex. 1877 



— Continued . 



91 



1192- 
1193; 

n9i 

1195 

1196 
1197 



120^1 
1203' 
1204 
1205 

1206 1 
1207 

1208 . 

1209 1 
1210 



1212 I 
1213 
1214 
1215 

1216 



122 1 
1222 I 
1223 
1224 

1225 : 

1226 I 
1227 
1228 
1229 

1230 : 

1231 
1232 

1233 , 

1234 : 
1235 

1236 
1237 

1238 : 

1239 
1240 

1241 
1242 

1243 1 

1244 : 
1245 

1246 
1247 
1248 
1249 
1250 



Deafness 




;?2o 

(► d 5 


xt j!ijxL&nji.o . 


Oct UoO • 


Age . 


."0 

• 


Scarlet fever 












B 








Fall 


4 years.. 
B 










Br. (1192) 














Irish, mVl d. m 




B 


















Spinal meningitis . . 




















Spinal meningitis.. 
Diphtheria 








































B 


Sr., 2 Brs. (1205) 








B 








Spinal meningitis, . 












m years 
VAi years 
























Scarlet fever 






























Convulsions 


154 mo's. 




Cs... 




















Spinal meningitis . 
( ongestive fever .. 
Spinal meningitis.. 
Spinal meningitis . 

Spinal meningitis . 
Spinal meningitis . 


3)^ years 




















































German 












Fever 












10 mo's.. 










3 years.. 


















B 


Br 




Iffi'dd. m. (727) 














B 








Spinal meningitis . 


6}A years 
B.... 














Disease of kidneys 






» 


• • 










B 










4 years.. 


Br. (1231), Sr 






Brain fever 


























































Measles 












B 


2d C. (2225) 


C... 






B 










B 






M'dd. m. (1458) 
























B 









92 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Addkess. 



County of 
Besidence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 
Dis- 

CHAEGE. 



125l!Lupi»u, Phelous. 
1252'Luther, Catherine^ 



1253 
1254 
1255 

1266 
1257 
1158 
1259 
1260 

1261 
1262 
1263 
1264 
1265 

1266 
1267 
1268 
1269 
1270 

1271 
1272 
1273 
1274 
1275 

1276 
1277 
1278 
1279 
1280 

1281 
1282 
12^3 
1284 
1285 

1286 
1287 
1288 
1289 
1290 

1291 
1292 
1233 
1294 
1295 



Luttrell, Cynthia J., 
Luttrell, Francis M. 
Lutz, Katie 



Lynch, Honora 

Lynch. Thomas 

Lyon, Thomas C... 

Lyons, Edna 

Lyons, Mary Alice. 



Mack. Arthur Walter. 

Mack, Jacob 

Mack, Kosa . . 

Madden, Elizabeth 

MafQoli, Bonfacio 



Maher, Timothy 

Mahon. Cecelia B. . 
Mahuffy, Bridget . . 
Maloom, Jemima. . . , 
Mallory. Olive May. 



Malone, Catharine.. 

Maloy, John 

Manny, Jessie 

Manter, Laforest Q. 
Mapes, 8u«an 



Marsh, Marietta 

Marshall, Benjamin F. 
Marshall, George W... 

Martin, Cora B 

Martin, Edward L 



Martin, Howard Beed . 
Mai-wedel, Ludwig G. , 

Marx, William 

Mason, Joseph B.. -- . . 
Mather, Elmira 



Mather, Fredrick 

Mather, Nannie 

Matteson, Beatrice Louisr 

Matthav, Emma 

Matthews, Elizabeth 



Man, Augusta 

Mausser, George .., 
Maxwell, Arthur M. 
Maxwell, George F. 
May, John 



1296 Mayall, Emmues C. 

1297 Mayes, John E 

1298 Mayetti-, Char os... 
1299|M(!Aey, Thomas... 
1300 Mc Arthur, Ellen ... 



1301 
1302 
1303 
1304 
1305 

1306 
1307 
13 8 
1309 
1310 



McAuley, Archie 

McCarthy, Catharine . 
McCarthy, Michael G. 
McCarthy, Thomas . .. 
McCarty, Andrew 



McCarty. Edward W 

McCl -ary, John G 

McC ellaud, Elizabeth A . 

McClelland, Joseph 

McClelland, Margaret 



Watseka. 
Chicago . 
Cairo 



Chicago 



Chicago .. . 
Snachwine 

Dwight 

Sibley 



Chicago — 
Kensington 
Bock ford ... 
Kwington .. 
Eo;kford ... 



Wilmington . 

Alton 

Vienna 

Chicago 

Moweaqua. . 



Lodi 

Streator 

Dixon 

Johet 

Jacksonville . 



Naples. 
Quincy. 
Bruce. . 
Galva . . 



Peoria . . 
Chicago 



Carrollton. 
Fish Hook. 

Fish Hook 



Morgan Park. 

Chicago 

Washington.. 



Chicago 

Peoria 

(Charleston 

Mahomet 

East St. Louis 



Ipava 

Alma 

Watseka. 
LaSalle . . 
Newman. 



Springfield . 
Lockport.,.. 
Chicago 



Bamsey 



Chicago .. . 
Mt. Erie ... 
York Neck. 
Coatsburg . 



Iroquois 

Cook 

Alexander 

Cook 

Cook 

Putnam 

Stephenson . . 
Ford 

Cook 

Winnebago . . 

Effingham 

Winnebago . . 

Will 

Madison 

Grundy 

Cook 

Shelby 

Kane 

LaSalle 

Lee 

Will 

Morgan 

Scott 

Adams 

LaSalle 

Henry 

Peoria 

Cook 

Greene 

Pike 

Pike 

Cook'. 

Iowa (state).. . 

Cook 

Peoria 

Cole? 

Champaign, . . 
!^t. Clair 

Fulton 

Marion 

Iroquois 

LaSalle 

Douglas 

Sangamon 

Will 

Cook 

Fayette..! 

Cook 

Wayne 

Adams 



1878 
1873 
1866 
1866 
1891 

1884 
1869 
1878 
1891 
1888 

1889 
1887 
1818 
1860 



1879 
1880 
1859 
1856 
1889 

1874 
1878 
1879 
1873 
1856 

1855 
1866 
1863 
1877 
1880 

I 

1888| 
I 

1875 
1874 
1885 



1885 
1888 
1881 
1852 

1878 
1881 
1886 
1863 
1877 

1883 
1889 
1878 
1876 
1873 

1886 
1881 
1878 
1891 
1869 

1859 
187? 
1868 
1860 
1860 



G., 1891 
D.B.,1886 

G. , 1877 

H. D.1875 



G., 1889 
G., 1880 
D.B.,1889 



H.D..1854 
G., 1862 



G., 1881 

G. , 1892 
D , 1865 

H. D..1862 



10 D.B.,1886 
10 D.B., 1888 
22 H,D.,ir 
ISiG., 1883 
10 H.D.,1865 

10|H.D.,1865 
9 H.D.,1872 

1(1 H.D.,1869 
9 U.B.,1888 
8D.B.,1891 



D.B.,1889 
D.K.,1891 
D.B..1876 



D.B.,1882 
D.B..1852 



15 D.B ,1884 
11 D.B.,1891 



G.. 1873 
E.-S.,1880 



D., 1880 
D.E.,1884 
D.B. 1886 



D.B..1887 
G., 18S0 



H.D.,1890 

H.D.,1863 
D.B.,1886 
H.D..1876 
H.D..1869 
H.D.,1867 



93 



-Continued. 



Numb 


Deafness. 


Deaf Relatives. 


(► a a 


Remaeks. 












W 


Cause. j Age. 




OJ o 















1251 
1252 
1253 
1254 
1255 

125G 
J257 
1258 
I25;i 

12(i0 



Scarlet fever 
Scarlet fever 



6 years.. 

2>6 years 
B 



Fever.. 



Brain fever 

Diphtheria 

Spinal meningitis 



2 years.. 

10 years. 
2^6 years 



Sicli.ness 



1201 Scarlet fever. 

1262 Sioliness 

12t)3 

12G4 Brain fever. 
1265 



1266 
1267 
J268 
1269 
1270 



Typhoid fever , 
Sickness 



Scarlet fever.. 



1271 Brain fever. .. , 

1272 Typhoid fever 

1273 Caiarrh 

12741 Inflammationbrain 
1275 



14 mo's.. 



2 years 
1!^ years 
8 mo's. 
6 years 
B 



10 years 
2 years.. 



8 years. 
B 



10 mo's. 
4 years. 



Br. (1264). 
Sr. (1253).. 



1 Sr. (1260) . 
I Sr. (1259) . 



C. (228). 



1276 Nervous fever 
1277 

1278 Inflammationbrain 

1279 Whooping cough. 



1280 

1281 

1282 
1283 
1281 
1285 

1286 
1287 
1288 
1289 
1290 

1291 
1292 
1293 
1294 
1295 

1296 
1297 
1248 
1299 
1300 

1801 
1302 
1303 
1304 
1305 

1306 
1307 
1308 
1309 
1310 



3 years. 
B 



18 mo's., 
. l6 mo's. ., 



Fr. mr. and br. (1278). 
Fr. mr. and br. (1277). 

2 brs. (1280) 

Sr. (1279). Br 



Deafness, partial. 

Cold 

Scarlet fever 



10 days. 
2 years. 
10 mo's. 
B 



Spinal meningitis. 



Sr. (1287). 4 Brs. (1286). 

2 srs.(1285), (1287).3Brs.(1286) 
Sr. (1285). 4 Brs. (1286). 



French 

German; M'd d. m. (683). .. 
Became teacher in 111. Inst. 

M'll d. m. (890) 

German 



Irish ; 
Irish.. 
Irish . 
Irish . 
Irish . 



m'd d. m. 



German 

M'd d. m. (1202) 
M'd d. m. (982). 
Italian 



Irish 

Irish 

Irish 

Scotch; m'd d. m. 



Irish 

Irish 

M'd a hearing man 



M'dd. m. (975). 



M'd d. m. (202). 
M'd d. m 



German 
German 



Mr.hear'g d'fectiv' ; not d.m 
Mr.hear'g d'fectiv'; not d.m 



German 



Spinal meningitis. 
Scarier fever 



idC. 



German 
German , 



M'dd. m. (277). 



Brain fever. 



Spinal meningitis. 



5 mo's. 
B 



French 
Irish .. . 



Sc irlet fever 

iVleasles 

Spinal meningitis. 



8 mo's. .. 

'ZVz years 



Scarlet fever 



Scarlet fever 

Spinal meningitis 



1 year. 



Irish . 
Irish . 
Irish . 



4 years. 



M'd d. m. (1460). 



Br.. Sr. 
2 Sr.... 
Br.. Sr. 



Cs. 
Cs. 
Cs. 



94 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Addeess. 



County of 
Besidence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 
Dis- 

CHAEGE. 



• H 



McClelland. William... 

McUlosky, James 

MoCoIlam, Annie May. 
Mc( ollam. Emma J. . . . 
McConnell, Jonathan... 



1311 
ISI'2 
1313 
1314 
1315 

1310 
1317 
1318 
1319 
1320 



1321 McCuteheon, Charles. 

1322 McDonald, Erov 

1323 McDonald, iviary 

1324 McDonald. Michael . . . 

1325 McDonald, Michael.. . . 



McCormick, John Anderson. 

McCormick, Sylvester , 

McCoy, Joseph , 

McCoy. Jo-eph W 

McCurdy. Delia 



1326'McDowell, Abner C... 

1327;McDowell, Etta J 

132'i McDowell, Julia M.... 
1329 Mcllhenny, Margaret. 
iQ'jn McEvoy, James E .. . . 



1330 

1331 
1332 



1333 
1331 

13,3.5 

133li 
1337 
133X 
1339 
1340 



McFall, Effle 

McFat land, James H. 



McParland, Jane 

McFarland, John B. 



McPatridge, Bertha B. 



McGary, Catharine. 

McGary, Charles 

McGary, Ellen 

McGinnis, Virginia . 
McGili. Nancy 



1341 McHenry. Elizabeth E., 

1342 McHenry, Elizabeth J. 



1343 
1344 
1345 

]34(i 
1347 
1348 
1349 
1350 



MoHose, Leola May 

Mcllvain, Carrie J 

Mcintosh, Willie G . ... 



McKean, Samuel V 

McKee, Jacob 

McKee, Susan A 

McKeever, Charles A 

Mc Ministry, Eobert Reid. 



1351 McLean, Charles E.. 
13.52 McLean, Elizabeth . 

1353 McLean, John 

1354!McLean, William T. 
1355 1 Mc Lucas, George A 



135(i 
1357 
1358 
1359 
1360 



McMahon, Michael 

MoManus, John 

McMillan. William H 

McNabney, Emily J 

McNamara, Patrick John 



1361 McNealy, Joseph. 
13(12 McNeill. Ann 
1363 ' 
1364 
1365 

1366 
1367 
1368 
1369 
1370 



McNeill, Mary W. 
McNeill, William... 
McNichols, Emma . 



McTigue. John 

McVav, John 

MoVay. Euth 

McWilliams, Ebenezer 
MoWilliams, VinnleB. 



Sandoval 

Quinoy 

Danvers 

Delta 

Cave-in- Book . 



Chicago 

EflEiiigham., 

Trivoli 

Lovilli 

Carthage.. . 



Chatsworth . . . 
Crab Orchard , 

Manhatton 

Chicago 

Ridgely 



Hopedale. .. . 

Clayton 

Pontiac 

Waynesville. 
Lemont 



Blandinsville. 
Louisville 



Batavia ... 
Louisville 



Vienna 

Crystal Lake. 



Jacksonville. 
Palestine 



Sparta , 



St. Louis . 
Clay City . 
Pontiac . . . 



Mill Shoals . 

Oblong 

Kankakee... 

Minonk 

DePue 



Tremont. 
Marissa. . 
Tremont. 



Litchfield. 



Lacon 

Marseilles . 
Chicago ... 

Blair* 

Decatur 



Morrisonville 
Bloomington. 



Chicago 

Chicago 
Burton.. 



Olne^ 

Monticello. 



Marion 

Adams 

McLean 

Hardin 

Cook 

Effingham 

Peoria 

Hamilton 

Hancock 

Livingston.... 
Williamson .. 

Will 

Cook 

Sangamon 

Tazewell 

Adams 

Livingston. .. 

DeWitt 

Cook 

McDonough.. 
Mo. (State).... 



Kane 

Mo. (State)... 

Johnson 

McHenry 

Morgan 

Crawford 

Eandolph ... 

Mo. (State)'.!! 

Clay 

Livingston .. 

White 

Crawford 

Kankakee ... 

Woodford 

Bureau 

Tazt^well . .. . 

St. Clair 

Tazewell 

Montgomery, 

Marshall 

LaSalle 

Cook 

Randolph 

Macon 

Christian 

McLean 

Cook....!!!!! 

Cook 

Adams 

Richland 

Piatt 



1865 
1865 
1887 
1859 
1853 

1889 
1870 
1855 
1860 
ISSO 

1873 
1886 
1891 
187S 
1885 

1856 
1885 
1877 
1858 
1880 



1880 



1846 



1874 
1848 

1887 

1869 
1869 
1869 
1856 
1871 

1861 
1863 
l>i88 
1884 
1875 

1883 
1873 
1872 
1869 
1891 

1881 
1882 
1883 
1878 
1887 

1858 
1880 
1869 
1870 
1877 

1878 
1869 
1869 
1869 
1882 

1879 
1855 
1854 
1862 
1879 



H.D..1869 
D.R.,1872 



H.D.,1865 
H.D.,1858 



H.D,,1878 
H.D.,1856 
H.D.,1869 
R.S.,1886 

D.R.,1880 



D.R.,1884 
D.R.,1892 

H.D.,1862 
U.R..1891 
D.R.,1889 
H.D.,1886 
D.R.,11 



H.D..1851 



G. , 1887 

H. D..1851 



D.R.,]88fl 
D.R.,1880 
D.R.,1880 
H,D.,1864 
D.R..1881 

G. , 1873 

H, D.1870 
D.R.,189l 
D., 1886 
G., 1886 



D.E. 
D.. 
G., 
G., 



1889 
1874 
1883 
1880 



D.R.,1891 
D.R.,1886 



D.E.,1886 
D.E..1891 

G. , 1867 
D.R.,188« 
D.R.,1880 
D.R..1881 
D.R.,1886 

D.R.,188I 

H. D.,1874 
H.D.,1879 
H.D.,1870 
D.E.,1891 

D.E.,1886 
D.E., 1891 
D.E.,1858 
H.D.,1869 
D.R.,1889 



— Continued. 



95 



1311 

1312 , 
1313 
1314 
1315 

1316 
1317 
1318 i 
1319 
1320 i 

1321 
1322 
1323 
1324' 
1325 

1326 
1827 
1328 
1329 
1330 

1331 
1332 



1333 
1334 

1335 

1336 
13:57 
1338 
1339 
1340 



1316 : 

1347: 

1348 ! 

1349 ; 

1350 ' 



13B5 

1356 
1357 I 
135« . 
1359 I 
1360 

1361 ; 

1362 
1363 
1364 

1365 : 
1366 : 

1367 - 

1368 1 

1369 I 
1370 



Deafness. 


Deaf Relatives. 


M M !Z| 
!^ 03 

ft 
• 1^ 


Bemabks. 


Cause. 


Age. 




















Irish 




B 


Mr., Fr 






A^u6 Qjiid measles 


Infancy 


















B 






Irish .... 




B 








Scarlet fever 


2>6 years 


























Spinal meningitis . 


10 years. 
B 














Spinal fever 








Irish 




B 








Sninn.l m Aninp'itiQ 


5 years 


















B 






Colored 


spinal meningitis . 










B 






M*d man not deaf 






1 2d and 1 3ii C 




Irish . . 


Ear aclie 


5 mo*s 










B 


Br (1334) Sr 


Cs... 


M'd d. m. Became teach'r in 
Mo. In. Clergyman M. E. 
Church Soutii 


Spinal fever 


9 vftarfi 








Br. (1332) Sr 


Cs... 


M'd d. m. (1688). Became a 


Collection in ear , . . 








Br (1337) Sr (1338) 


Cs .. 
Cs .. 
Cs. .. 


Irish 






2 Srs (13361 (1338) 








Br (1337) Sr (1336) . 






















Brain fever 


(j mo's 
<J/2 years 
3'" years 
9 mo's 


C (1342) 


Cs... 


M'd d. m. (1561) 


Erysiyielas 


C (1341) 


M'd. d. m (1560) 


Spinul meningitis.. 
Quini ne 














Congestion brain.. 
Fever 


9 mo's 








10 mo*-' 








Brain fever 










Scarlet fever 










Spinal meDingitis.. 
Spinal 11) eningi tis . . 

Mea'^lOcs 










3^f> vpar^ 
'2M> vpjirQ 








2 Brs (1353) (1354) 






T^rfiin fpvHT" 










11 mo's.. 

4. vPa.rQ 


2 Brs (1351) (1354) 






Measles 


















B 


Br 




Irish m'd d m. (982) 


Spinalmeningitis, . 








Irish, killed on railroad... 
M'd d. m. (1814) 






























Fright 












B 


Br. (1364) Sr. (1363) 




M'd d. m. (1831) 




B 










B 














C.GP 














B 


Sr. (1.368) 




M'd d. m. (1442) 




14 years. 








Gathering in head, 
sipin il meningitis.. 














M'd d. m. (1403) 



96 



List of Pupils 



1371 
1372 
1373 
1874 
1375 

1376 
1377 
1378 
1379 
1380 

1381 
1382 
1383 
1384 
1385 

1386 
1387 
1388 
1389 
1390 

1391 
1392 
1393 
1394 
1395 

1396 
1397 
1398 
1399 
1400 

1401 
1402 
1403 
1404 
1405 

1406 
1407 
1408 
1409 
1410 

1411 
1412 
1413 
1414 
1415 

1416 
1417 
1418 
1419 
1420 

1421 

1422 
1423 
1424 
1425 

142« 
1427 
1428 
1429 
1430 



Name. 



Mecum, Minnie M 

Medley, Sarnh A 

Meek, Lara Sullivan 

Meeker, George 

Meisel, Alexander 

Melahu, Caroline 

Mentzel, William 

Mercer, Albert 

Mercer, Jessie B 

Merrill, Aslibell N 

Merrill, Geoi ge E 

Merrill, Letitia B 

Merz, John 

Metheny, David 

Mettler, Thomas H 

Meyer, Charles 

Meyer. Carl 

Meyer, Joseph 

Middleton, Rufus E 

Miller, Carrie B 

Miller, Charles A. 

Miller, Charles E 

Miller, Klda A 

Miller, Elizabeth 

Miller, Harriet 

Miller, Joseph 

Miller, Louisa O 

Miller, Mary L 

Miller, Robert H 

Miller, William Frederick 

Miller, William R 

Mills, Diamond Isabell 

Mills, John W 

Mills, Julia Onu? 

Mills, William H 

Milsap, Abner G 

Mihon, Amenia 

Mina, Otto 

Mindrun, Harm 

Miner, Edward 

Minn. Nicholas L 

MintOD, William 

Mitchell, Christiana 

Mitchell, Cordelia R 

Mitchell, Emma 

Mitchell, Hannah 

Mitchell, .lames P 

Mitchell. Sarah P 

Moake, Daisy B 

Moake, Florence Clemantine 

Moake, Trissy B 

M oats. Harry 

Moffatt, Joseph H 

Molloy, Ann 

Molohon, Henry A 

Mooney, Lucy W 

Moore. Alice 

Moore, Ann 

Moore. Christian 

Moore, Henry 



postoffice 
Addbess. 



Macomb 

Jacksonville . . 

Chicago 

Praiiie Centre 
Chicago 

Champaign 

Winchester ... 

Liberty 

Taylorville 

East St. Louis 

East Orland ... 

Petersburg 

Decatur 

Mdcedonia . . . . 
Bedford 

Chicago 

Belleville 

Peoria 

Payette 

Mound Station 

Bloomington. . 

Marengo 

Loami 

Columbia 

Nokomis 

Hopedale 

Mt. CarroU 

Adeline 

Momence 

Chicago 

Colambia 

Wheaton 

Waverly 

Modesto 

Warrenviile .. . 

Rushville 

Chapin 

Chicago 

Nokomis 

Cornell 

Louisiana 

Peoria , 

Morris 

Jerseyville 

Trenton 

Urbana 

Nashville 

Olney 

Cartervllle 

Carterville 

Wyoming 

Peoria 

Chicago 

Pawnee 

Mattoon 

Swan Creek... 

Winchester 

Marshall 

Moccasin 



County of 
Residence. 



McDonough.. 

Morgan 

Cook 

LaSalle 

Cook 

Champaign. .. 

Scott 

Adams 

Christian 

St. Clair 

Cook 

Menard 

Macon 

Hamilton 

Pike 

Cook 

St. Clair 

Peoria 

Greene 

Brown 

McLean 

McHenry 

Sangamon 

Monroe 

Montgomery.. 

Tazewell 

Carroll 

Ogle 

Kankakee 

Cook 

Monroe 

DuPage 

Morgan 

Macoupin 

DuPage 

Schuyler 

Morgan 

Cook 

Montgomery.. 
Livingston . .. 

Missouri (St.). 

Peoria 

Grundy 

Jersey 

Clinton 

Champaign. .. 
Washington.. 

Richland 

Williamson. .. 



Williamson. .. 

Stark 

Peoria 

Cook 

Sangamon — 

Coles 

Warren 

Scott 

Clark 

EflGlngham. . .. 



Ad- 
mitted 



1871 
1891 
1876 
1867 

1862 
1883 
1887 
1875 
1879 

1879 
1879 
1869 
1853 
1879 

1877 
1887 
1884 
1880 
1875 

1890 
1876 
1864 
1862 
1864 

1868 
1872 
1876 
1877 



1859 
1885 
1874 
1891 
1848 

18.57 
1874 
1N8' 
1881 
1875 

1872 
1849 
1870 
1872 
1877 

1850 
1865 
1880 
1891 
1890 

1890 
1885 
1889 
1866 
1879 

1875 
1876 
1857 
1881 
1876 



Mode of 

Dis- 
charge 



D., 1874 



R.S.,1880 

G. , 1879 

H. D.,1872 
R.S.,1886 



D.R.,1 
G., 1883 

G. 1889 



R,S.,1880 
H.D.,1865 



G., 1888 



D.R. 
DR. 
G.. 



,1889 
1888 
1886 



D.R. 1884 
H.D.,1874 
H.D,.1875 
H.D.,1866 

D.R.,1880 
D.R. 1884 
DR., 1881 
D.R.,1886 



H.D.,1869 



U.R.,1886 

iiibV.isw 

D.. 1861 
D.R.,1881 



D.R.,1886 

H.D.,1874 
H.D.,1855 
D.R.,1886 
G., 1882 

G. , 11 

H. D..1852 
H.D.,1872 



H.D.,1868 
G., 1891 

B. S.,1884 

G. , 1891 

H. D.,1862 
D.R., 1889 



19iD., 1879 



— Continued. 



97 



Deafness. 



Cause. 



Age. 



Deaf Belatives. 



it3C O 

s- a o 
w s 2! 

; o 
- fcj 



Remarks. 



1371 Fall on back head.. 
1372, Spinal meningitis. 

1373 Abscess in head . ., 

1374 Sickness 

1375 Fall 



1 year. . 
4 years. 



1 ye 

: 



ear 
years 
2 years.. 



137(ii 
1377 
1378 
1379 
1380 



S pinal meningitis . , 



Scrofula , 



3 mo's. 
B 



1381 Rrain fever 

1382 Diphtlieria.... 

1383 Scarlet fever.. 
13841 Winter fever . . 
1385iTyphoid fever 



13861 Brain fever. 

1387 1 Sickness 

1388 



2 year.'?. 



M years 

3 years. 

4 years. 

5 years. 



1389 
1390 

1391 
139a 
1393 
1394 
1895 



Pneumonia 

Spinal meningitis. 



Brain fever. 
Scarlet fever 



3 mo's. . 
3 years. 
2 years . 

B 

B 



139S 

1397 Sickness. 
1398' Measles . 

139;t| 

1400 Sickness. 



B 

19 mo's. 



3d Cs 



Br. (1401). 



B 

1 year. . 
18 mo's. 



Hebrew, m'd d. m. 
German 



M'd d. m. 



German 



German 



German , 



German, m'd d. m. (2217) . 

M'd. d. m. (1904) 

M'd. d. m. (1790) divorced .. 



Cs.. 



German 

German, m'd d.m. (1908) 
M'd d. m 



1401 
1402 
1403 
1404 
1405 

140() 
1407 
1408 
1409 
1410 

1411 
1412 
1413 
1414 
1415 

1416 
1417 
1418 
1419 
1420 

1421 
1422 
1423 
1424 
1425 

1426 
1427 
1428 
1429 
1430 



Whooping cough.. 
Gathering in ears. 
Spinal meningitis. 



Brain fever. 



Scarlet fever. 



3 years.. 

9 mo's. .. 
1>4 years 
2?^ years 

B 

lii years 



B 

4 years. 



Pole 



Sr. (1394) 

Pr. (1405) Mr. (1758) , 

U. (1404) , 

U. (1403) 



M'd d. m. (1370)., 



M'd d. m. (1758), 1 dr. deaf 
(1402) 



Spasms 

Spinal meningitis. 



2 years. 



Irish 

German 



Sickness 

Fevet 

Sickness 

Spinal meningitis 



Typhoid fever 

Fever 

Spinal meningitis. 



B 

1J6 years 
7 years 
1 year. 



Cs. 



Irish 

M'd d. m. 



3 mo's. . 
5 years. 



3dC. 



Fall 10 mo's. 

Scarlet fever 2 years. 



Spinal meningitis. 
Pall 



B 

B 

1 year. 



2 Srs. (1420) (1421) 
2 Srs. (1419) (1421) , 

2 Srs. (1419) (1420) , 



Spinal meningitis 

Smallpox 

Scarlet fever 6 mo'i 



2 years. 



Br. (1431), Sr. 



Cs. 



M'd d. m. (265). 2d d. m. (1635) 



Irish . 
Irish . 



Irish, m.d a man not deaf. 



98 



List ot Pupils 



Name. 



POSTOrFCE 

Address. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OP 

Dis- 
charge 



■ H 



1431 

im 

1433 
1434 
1435 

143G 
1437 
1438 
143'.t 
1440 

1401 

1442 

1443 
1444 
1445 

1446 
1447 
1448 
1449 
1450 

1451 

145'.i 
1453 
1454 
1455 



Moore, James 

Moore, Jonathan M. . 
Moorfleld, Nannie V. 

Moran, Edwai'd 

Moreland, Lydia A. . . 



Morey. Edward 

Morgan, Elizabeth 

Moi gan, Michael 

Morgan, Nova Zembla. 
Morine, Catherine E... 



Morine, Dolly 
Morina, Julia. 



Morris, Charles 

Morris, Jeannette. . 
Morris, William H . 

Morrow, Lewis A.. 

Morse, Albert 

Morton, George A . 
Morton, Oscar W . . 
Moss, James 



Mote. William 

Mueller, Sophia Elisa 

Muldrow, Leila s 

Mulligan, John 

Mullins, Ellen 



145G Mulloy, James. 

1457 Mumma, Warren 8 

1458 Munson, Robert M. 
145!) Murdv, Clarence A. 
1460 Murphy, Bridget... 



Murphy, Ed\vard J . 
Murphy, Havoid — 
Murphy, James W.. 
Murphy, Preston H. 
Murray. Allen P 



1461 
1462 
1463 
1464 
1465 

1466 
1467 
1468 
1469 
1470 

1471 
1472 
1473 
1474 
1475 

1476 
1477 
1478 
1479 
1480 

1481 
1482 
1488 
1484 
1485 

1486 
1487 
1488 
1489 
1490 



Murray, Julia 

Musgrave, Alma M 
Myers, Clemance .. 

Myers. Jane M 

Myers, Notie 



Myers, Rosa R 

Myers, William O .. 

Myrick, James 

Nannery, Anna 

Nannery. Margaret 



Nash, EllenF.... 
Nash, Thomas S 

Neal, Willis 

Neale, John A.... 
Neeb. Minnie 



Near, Etta 

Neil, David 8... 
Neil, Isabella C 

Neilson, Ida 

Neilson, John.. . 



Neilson, Nels P 

Nelson Andrew 

Nelson, Olivia 

Nelson, Toralf 

Nelson, William N. 



Winchester. .. 

Fairbury 

Edwardsville. 

Norwood 

Groveland.... 

Englewood ... 
Macedonia . . . 

Chicago 

Big Muddy. .. 
Quincy 

Quincy 

Marshall 

Rock Island.. 

Jacksonville.. 
St. Charles ... 

Athens 

Raccoon 

Palmer 

Charleston . .. 

Highland 

Chapin 

Galena 

Chicago 

LaSalle 

Granville 

Bloomington. 

Chenoa 

Chicago 

Collinsville. .. 
Jacksonville... 
Collinsville. .. 
Monmouth . .. 
Plainfleld 

Curran 

Hutsonville... 
Spring Valley 

Roi^kford 

Eushton 

Jacksonville... 

Lebanon 

Petersburg. .. 
Wilmington .. 
Gardner 

Hannibal' 

Evanston 

Newton 

Peoria 

Atwood 

Prairie Home 

St. Charles... 

St. Charles ... 

Elgin 

Altoona 

Chicago 

Elgin 



Scott 

Livingston . .. 

Madison 

Mercer 

Tazewell 

Cook 

Hamilton 

Cook 

Franklin 

4.dams 

Adams 

Clark 

Rock island.. 

Morgan 

Kane 

Menard 

Marion 

Christian 

Coles 

Madison 

Morgan 

JoDaviess 

Cook 

LaSalle 

Putnam 

McLean 

Cook.. 

Madison 

Morgan 

Madison 

Warren 

Will 

Sangamon 

Crawford 

Bureau 

Winnebago .. 
Coles 

Morgan 

St. Clair 

Menard 

Will 

Grundy 

Mo._(State).... 

Cook 

Jasper 

Peoria 

Piatt 

Shelby 

Kane 

Kane 

Knox 

Cook 

Kane 



1862 
1872 
1883 
1877 
18G4 

1891 
1882 
1880 
1872 
1856 

1887 
1868 

1891 
1891 

188, 

1858 
1856 
1859 
1886 
1874 

1863 
1«90 
1878 
1856 
1884 

1871 
IS 

1865 
1879 
1860 

1868 
1890 
1879 
1851 
1857 



1879 
1891 
1857 
1890 

1891 

1883 
1858 
1865 
1866 

1848 
1848 
1877 
1863 
1882 

IS 

1868 
1869 
1877 
1878 

1875 
18^7 
1883 
1891 
1885 



H.D.,1865 
H.D.,1882 



D.R.,1886 
H.D..1886 



13 

10 D.R.,1889 
12 DR., 1887 
ISID.R.,1881 
9 G., 1865 



H.D.,1880 



DR., 1860 
H.D.,1867 
D.R.,1867 

D.R.,r ' 

D.R.,1876 
D.R ,1866 



D.B.,1881 
D.R.,1860 
D.R.,1887 

D.R.,1881 
D.B.,r " 
H.D.,1874 

G. , 1890 

H. D.,1867 

H.D.,1 



H.D.,1853 
G.. 181.7 



G.. 1890 



H.D.,1865 



D.R,. 1886 
D.R.,1859 
H.D.,1875 
H.D.,1876 

H.D.,1853 
H.U.,1850 



D.R.,1864 



D.R..1: 
G., 1S79 
G.. 1880 
G., II 
D.R.,]: 



10 D.R.,1884 
11 

131 

7 

17lD.R.,1891 



99 



— Continued. 



Number... 


Deafness. 


Deaf Relatives. 


Consan- 
guinity OF 
Parents... 


Remabks. 




Age. 




1431 
1432 
1433 
1434 
1435 

1436 
1437 
1438 
1439 

1440 

1441 
1442 

1443 
1444 

1445 

1446 
1447 

1448 
1449 
1450 

1461 
1452 
1453 
1454 
1455 

1456 
1457 
1458 
1459 
1460 

1461 
1462 




B 


















Spinal meningitis.. 


















Water on brain 










































is mo's.. 
10 mo's.. 

B 










Sr 




French and Indian; m'd 








Gatiiering in head. 








French and Indian; m'd d. 


B 










1 Sr., Br. (1443) 




































Scarlet fever 










Spinal disease 






Cs , 




Typhoid fever 










Scarlet fever 








Killed at home on K. K . . . . 


Spinal meningitis . . 


























Scarlet fever 










Scarlet fever 








T • l- 


Spinal meningitis . 


















Spinal meningitis. . 










Scarlet fever 




















Whooping cough . . 










146:i 
1464 










Congestive chill . .. 










1465 

1466 
1467 
1468 
14(iO 
1470 

1471 
1472 
1473 
1474 
1475 

1476 
1477 
1478 


1J6 years 
















Spinal meningitis.. 










Spasms 




















Flux and morphine 


















•S pinal meningitis . . 




















B 










"D 










4 years.. 
















Spinal meningitis.. 

Fever 










1479 










1481) 
1481 

m'2 

1483 
1484 
148S 

1486 
1487 
148? 
148! 
149t 












Fever 












B 











B 






















Br. (1486) Sr. (1484) 










Br. (1485), Sr. (1484) 
















Typhoid fever 










Malarial fever 


1}6 years 

















100 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postofpice 
Addbess. 



County op 
Kesidence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 

Dis- 
charge. 



urn 

h 



1491 
1492 
1493 
1494 
1495 

1496 
1497 
1498 
1499 
1500 

1501 

1602 
1503 
1504 
1505 

1506 
1507 
1508 
1509 
1510 

1511 
1512 
1513 
1514 
151i 

1516 
1517 
1518 
1519 
1520 

1521 
1522 
1523 
1524 
1525 

1526 
1527 
1528 
1629 
1530 

1531 

1532 
1533 
1534 

1535 



1536 
1537 

1538 

1539 
1540 

1541 

1542 
1543 
1544 
1545 

1546 
1547 
1548 
1549 
1550 



Netherlon, Argeline. 
Neumaier, William . . 
Newman, Ellsworth . 
Newton, Adelaide L. 
Niclaus, Emll 



Nicholas, William A. 

Nichols, Anna 

Nichols, Josie A — 

Nichols, Sarah J 

Nichols, Thomas 



Nicholson, Charles . ... 

Nickle, Charles 

Niemczewski, Joseph. 
Niemczewsld, Rosa... 
Nieman, Adolph T 



Nix, Mary M 

Nolan, Jaines 

Nolan, Jam'^s Martin. 

Nold, William 

Noonan, George 



Oatway, Callie 

Oberto, Joseph 

O'Brien, John 

O'Brien, Sarah 

O'Connell, Catharine. 



O'Connell, Mary A 

O'Conner, Mary Agnes. 

Odell.Kachel Ann 

OffenlocI), Casper 

Oft'erding, Daniel 



Olferlee, Premond. 
Oft'erlee, Louis J. . 
Offerlee, Mary I.... 

O'Hara, Joseph 

O'Leary, John 



Oleson, Peter R 

dinger, Joseph A 

Olson, Adolph 

Opfer, John Henry P. 
Ore, Mary Eva 



Orr, Noah Willis 

Ostenburg, Joseph P. . 
Osterholdt, Edward B. 
Quart, Elizabeth 



Quart, John. 



Overton. Mary Belle. 
Owen, Eva S 



Owen, Henry Jefferson . 



Qxendine, Maude. 
Qyen, William J.. 



Paden, Margaret A. 

Padgitt, Lavinia 

Palinske, Edward .. 

Paine, Rufus K 

Painter, William 



Pancake, Addison 

Paris, Catharine 

Park, David E 

Parker, Harriet 

Parkhurst, Lycurgus Q. 



Gillespie 

Mendota 

Martinsville 

Amboy 

Chicago 

Brimiield 

Carlyle 

Ursa 

Carlyle 

Fairfield 

Rock Island 

Chicago 

Preeport 

Rockbridge 

Erin 

Chicago 

Brussels 

Qdell 

Warren 

CoUinsville 

Chicago 

Lookport 

Joliet 

Chicago 

Greenfield 

Chicago 

Red Bud 

Geneseo 

Lebanon 

Alton 

Andover 

Long Grove 

Chicago 

Quincy 

Kappa 

Versailles 

Springfield 

Rushville 

Wethersfleld 

Wethersfleld 

Antioch 

Chestervlle 

Prairie du Ebcher 

Hatton 

Minonk 

Litchfield 

Hoopston 

Kankakee 

Springfield 

Sycamore 

Bioomington 

Jacksonville 

Coal Valley 

Jacksonville 

Kansas 



Macoupin 

LaSalle 

Clark 

Lee 

Cook 

Peoria 

Clinton 

Adams 

Clinton 

Wayn« 

Rock Island... 
Cook 

Stephenson .. 

Greene 

McHenry 

Cook 

Calhoun 

Livingston . . . 

JoDaviess .... 

Madison 

Cook 

Will 

Cook 

Greene 

Cook 

Randolph 

Henry 

St. Clair. 
Madison 

Henry 

Lake 

Cook 

Adams 

Woodford .... 

Brown 

Sangamon 

Schuyler 

denry 

Henry 

Lake 

Douglas 

Randolph .... 

Clark 

Woodford 

Montgomery. 

Vermilion 

Kankakee 

Sangnmon 

DeKalb 

McLean 

Morgan 

Rook Island.. 

Morgan 

Edgar 



1858 
1869 
1875 
1873 
1876 

1851 

18-18 

1885 

1848: 

1848, 

1881 
1882 
1874 
1882 
1884 

1864 
1853 
1884 
1878 
1874 

1885 
1883 
1851 
1866 
1877 

1873 
1886 
1885 
1875 
1884 

1876 
1871 
1866 
1876 
1878 

1874 
1879 
1883 
1891 
1878 

1881 
1880 
1879 
1862 

1859 



1884 
1878 

1886 

1890 
1890 

1862 
1876 
1888 
1853 
1884 

1854 
1880 
1877 
1847 
1875 



H.D ,1867 
H.D.,1874 
D.R.,1882 
D.R.,I886 
D.R.,1884 

H.D.,1860 
D.R.,1854 



H.D.,1854 
D„ 1854 

D.R.,1882 



D.R.,1884 
D.R.,18b7 



H.D.,1872 
H.D.,1862 



D.R.,lis91 
H.D.,1875 



D.R.,1856 
H.D.,1875 
D.R.,1889 

G.. 1884 



D.R.,1886 



G., 1887 
D.R.,1884 
G., 1878 
D.R..1884 
D.R.,1883 

D.R.,1876 
R.S., 1885 
D,R.,1891 



G., 1889 



D.R.,1887 
D.R.,1891 
D.R. 1864 

H.D.,1867 



D.R. 
G., 

D.R.: 



1889 
1884 



G., 1873 
D.R.,1882 



H.D.,1864 
D.R.,1891 

G.. 1866 



D.R.,1881 
D.R. 1848 
D.R.,1880i 



101 



-Continued . 



Deafness. 



Cause. 



Age. 



Deaf Relatives. 



Remakks. 



Sickness. 
Cold 



1491 

]49'2 

1494 
1495 



]49ti'Spabms, teething 
1497 

Catarrh, diphtheria 



3 years. 
B 



M'd d. m. (18)4 

Germim: M'd d. m. (49) 



>6 Br. (1719), Yz Sr. (1721). 



Cs. 



1498 
1499 
1500 

1501 
1502 
1503 
1504 
1505 

1506 
15.7 
1508 
1509 
1510 



B 

3 years. 
B 

b: 



Br. (1500), Sr. (1499). 



Br. (1500), Sr. (1497) , 
2 Srs. (1497) (149J),. . 



Enjriish 

Gt'rman; killed on railroad' 

Englisli 



M'd d. m. 



Measles ... 

Fever 

Spasms 

Brain fever. 



6 mo's. .. 



4 J^years 



Sr. (1504). 
Br. (1503). 



Congestion of brain 



Clap of thunder 

Spinal meningitis.. 
Congestion brain.. 



B 

2 years. 



1511 

1512 Diphtheria.. 



1513 
1514 
1515 

1516 
1517 
1518 
1519 
1520 

1521 
1522 
1523 
1524 
1525 

1526 
1527 
1528 
1529 
1539 

1531 
1532 
1533 
1534 

1535 



Siokness. 



Inflam'n of brain. .. 



16 years. 



B 

3 years. 
1 year. . 

B 

9 mo's.. 



B. 



German 

Pole 

Pole 

German 



Irish., 
Irish. 



Irish. 



English.. 
Italian . . 

Irish 

Irish 

Irish 



Irish. 



Spinal meningitis. 



18 mo's. 



Measles 

Spinal meningitis 



3 years. 



Sr. (1523), Br. (1522), C. 
Sr. (1523), Br. (1521), C. 
2Brs. (1521), (1-522), C... 



Spinal meningitis . 

Fit from fright 

Inflammation brain 
Spinal meningitis, 

Catarrhal fever.. . 
Spinal meningitis. 
Congestion of brain 



Sr. 



years 



18 mo's. 



Br. (1535). 2 Cs. 
Sr. (1534). 2 Cs. 



Spinal meningitis 
Spinal meningitis 



1536 
1537 

1538 

1539 
1540 

1541 
1542 
1543 
1544 
1545 

1546 
1547 
1548 
1549 

1550 Spinal meningitis. 

—9 D. D. 



Sr. 



Sickness 

Sickness in head. 

Catarrh 

Measles 

Fever 

Brain fever 



7;years. 

B 

2 years. 



Spinal meningitis. 



2 years. 

1 year. . 

2 years. 

B 



9 years. 



German. 
German. 



French. M'd d. m. (711). . 

French 

French 

Irish 

Irish. Killed on R.R. 



Swede 

German 

Swede 

German 

Became teacher in Kansas 
Inst 



Irish 

German 

German. Deafness in fam- 
ily tor 5 generations 

German. Md. woman not 
deaf. Deafniiess in fam- 
ily for 5 generations 

English 

Md. d. m.(402). Became a 
teacher in Kansas Inst.. 

Mother hard of hearing in 
adult life 



M'd d. m.. 



German 



M'd d. m. (1056). 



103 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postofficb 
Addeess. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 

Dis- 
charge. 



1551 
1552 
1553 

1554 
1555 

155K 
1557 
1558 
i559 
1560 

1561 
1562 
1563 
1564 
1565 

1566 
1567 
1568 
1569 
1570 

1571 

1572 
1573 
1574 
1575 

1576 
1577 
1578 
1579 
1580 

1581 
5582 
5583 
'1584 
1585 

1586 
1587 
1588 
1589 
1590 

1591 
1592 
1593 
1594 
1595 

1596 
1597 
1598 
1599 
1600 

1601 
1002 
1603 
1604 
1605 

5606 
1607 
1608 
1609 
1610 



Parkin, Eliza 

Pastoor, Christiana E. 
Patten, Eleanor M 



Patten, Jennie M 

Patterson, Edward R. 



Patterson, Pi-anU M 
Patterson, Robert... 

Pattison, Susie 

Pat on, George W... 
Patton. Lafayette.... 



Pauket. Ephraim , 

Paus, Louisa 

Pauling, Otto 

PaytoD, James 

Payton, Mary E. .. 



Pearson. Oscar 

Peitseh, William... 
Pekare, Jeremiaii. . 
Pekare, LaFayette. 
Peck, Peter 



Peek, Mary E 



Pender. George A 

Pennoyer, Flort^nce .. 

Pentcgrast, John 

PerpiKoski, Veronica. 



Perry, Ella G 

Perry, Matilda A 

Perry, Oliver 

Perry, Thomas I 

Peterson, Caroline , 



Peterson, Frederick O 

Peterson, Harrv Rudolph. 

Petro, George S 

Phelps, Fannie Maude 

Philljps, David 



Phillips. George Victor 
Piantonski, Stephen..... 

Pickett. George Y 

Pieper, Bertha Emelia . , 
Pierce, Richard A 



Pike, Joseph Edward 

Pike, Missouri E 

Pike.Thomos E 

Piloher, William J 

Pinneo, Flora E 



Piskac, Annie 

Piskac, John 

Pittard, Mary 

Flasket, Cyrus B 
Pointer, Hannah. 



Pollard, George Marble. 

Pollock, Mary A 

Pope, Frederick 

Porter, John. A 

Post, Barbara 



Potter, Edwin 

Poulter, Henry G. . 
Powell, Dorcas E.J. 

Powell, Mary 

Power, Robert S.. . 



Jacksonville., 

Ridott 

Seneca 



Quincy 

Charleston . 



Sterling , 
Chicago 
Virden.. , 

Paris 

Paxton . . 



Fountain Green , 
Wright's Grove.. 

Monee 

Monmouth , 



Chicago 

Bloomington. 

^t. Ann 

Thebes 

Cerro Gordo.. 

Chicago 



Enflfild.... 
La Harpe.. 
Chicago .. 
Alton 



Elgin 

Carterville 
WestfleliJ... 

Exeter , 

Chicago ... 



Belleville . 
Moreland. 

Utica 

Chicago .. 
Girard 



Wellington 

Chicago 

Grand Crossing. 

Lanark 

Jacksonville 



Flora 

New Berlin. 
Elizabeth. .. 
Lynnville... 



Chicago . 

Geneva . . 
Marshall. 
Areola... 



Lewistown 

Watkin's Grove. 

Rockford 

Broughton 

Oregon 



Pittsfleld 

Hit' sville 

Jeffersonville . 
Carbondale .. . 
Springfield 



Morgan 

Stephenson .. 
LaSalle 



Adams. 
Coles . . 



Whiteside 

Cook 

Macoupin 

Edgar 

Ford 



Hancock. 

Cook 

Will 

Warren .. 



Cook 

McLean ... 

Kankakee 

Alexander 

Piatt 



Cook. 



White. ... 
Hancock. 

Cook 

Madison. 



Kane 

Williamson. .. 

Clark 

Scott 

Cook 



St. Clair .. 

Cook 

LaSalle ... 

Cook 

Macoupin 

Iroquois.. 

Cook 

Scott 

Cook 

Carroll — 



Morgan 

Clay 

Sangamon 

JoDaviess 

Morgan 



Cook. 



Kane 

Clark.... 
Douglas , 



Fulton 

Mason 

Winnebago 
Hamilton.... 
Ogle 



Pike 

Coles 

Wayne 

Jackson 

Sangamon. 



1860 
1883 
1886 

1869 
1871 

1878 
1876 
1868 
1873 
1864 

1847 

1885 
1880 
1867 
1868 

1885 
18!il 
1866 
1887 
1888 

1868 

1882 
1859 
1873 
1890 

1867 
1875 
1878 
1857 
1891 

1886 
1890 
1874 
1883 
1884 

1891 
1875 
1859 
1888 
1880 



1890 
70 
1877 
1852 
1853 



1882 
1891 
1889 
lh90 

1887 
18.54 
1877 
1880 
1864 

1886 
1849 
1880 
1864 



D., 1862 
D.R ,1884 
G., 1878 

R.S.,1892 
D.R.,1876 

G., 1889 
R.S.,1884 
G., 1878 
G., 1882 
G., 1873 

D.K.,1848 
D.K.,1887 
D.R.,1891 
D.K.,1884 
D.R.,1876 



DR. 
D.R. 



1876 
1891 



G.. 1878 

D.R.,1884 
D.R.,1859 
D.R.,1 



D R.,1878 
D.R.,1880 



H.D.,1848 



DR., 1881 
R.S.,1885 
D.R.,1892 

D.R.,1892 
H.D.,1887 
D.R.,1867 



D.R.,1891 



D.R.,1880 
D.R.,1881 
H.D.,18G3 
H.D ,1860 



D.R.,1892 



H.D.,I872 
D. 1878 
D.R.,18S6 
H.D.,1872 



D,. 18.50 
D R.,1889 
H.D .1867 



103 



—Continued. 



Deafness. 



Cause. 



Age. 



Deaf Relatives. 



f d 2 
w s ^ 

M Z cn 

• >^ 



Bemaeks. 



1551 

[1552 
(1553 

II 

11554 
.1555 

11556 
11557 
!155S 
lolil) 
1500 



Worm fever. . 
Scarlet fever . 



1 year. 
B 



Whooping cough. 



m years 
B 



2 Gt. Gr. Uncles. 



English 

Ge man 

Md. d. m. (2fi7). Became a 
teacher n Illinois Inst.. 
M'd d. m. (1121) 



Cs. 



Inflammation brain 
Spin il meningitis.. 
Spinal meningitis.. 



4 years. 



Sickness 

Scarlet fever . 



1501 

.I5i;2 

(1503 

Il5(il| 

■1505, Scrofula 



4 years. 
B 



Sr. (1565) . 
Br. (1564). 



1500 
,1507 
1508 
1509 
11570 

■1571 

11572 
!l57c! 
11574 
Il575 

1576 
tl577 
11578 
[1579 

;1580 

'15811 
;1582i 
11583 
11584 
!l585j 

15S6 

■15S7i 
:358S 
111589 
[1590 [ 

:159l' 
1692' 
1593: 
1594i 
1595 

il.59li 
(1597 

1:1598 

1 1599 
IIOUU 

aool 

1002 
,1603 
1604 
1005 



Scarlet fever 

Spinal meningitis. 



Spinal meningitis. 
Bilious fever 



2 years. 

3 years. 

B 

B 

9 mo's. . 



Br. (1469). 
Br. (1468). 



3 years. 



Sickness. 
Measles. . 



4 mo's.. 
2 years. 



M'd d. m.. 



M'd d. m. (1342). 

M'd d. m. (1341). 

German 

German 



German 

French. M'-d d. m. (1032) .. 
M'd d. m 



English. Became a teacher 
in art dep't III. Inst 



Irish 



Spinal meningitis. 
Brain fever 



B. 



10 mo's. 



Spinal meningitis 

Brain fever 

Mumps 



2 years 
2}2 years 



Sickness. 
Measles. . 



B 

8 years. 

2 years. 



1006 
1007 
1608 
1609 
1010 



Inflammation head 

Scarlet fever 

Spinal meiiingitia, 



Gathering in head, 
■^p nal menmgitis . 

Quinine 

Sickness 

Bihous fever 



1J6 years 



1 year. . . 



Br. (1593). 



Br. (1591). 
Br., Sr.... 



Fright , 



3 years. 



Sore mouth. 
Unknown ... 



Gathering in head. 
Spinal meningitis . . 



B 

B 

2 years.. 

11 years. 

B 

B 



Br. (1597) 
Sr (1596).. 



Br., Sr. 



3dO. 
Sr... 



Spinal meningitis. 
Shingles 



0 years. 
B 



M'd d. m. 
Dane 



Swede , 
Swede . 



Os... 



Pole 

M'd d. m. (688) , 
German 



M'd. d, m. (2007) 

M'd woman not deaf . 



Bohemian. 
Bohemian. 
English 



German 



1% years 



Canadian . 



104 



List of Pupils: 



Name. 



postoffice 
Addeess. 



County of 
Besidence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 

Dis- 
charge 



: 7 



1611 
1612 
1613 
1614 
1615 

1616 
1617 
1618 
1619 
1620 

1621 
1622 
1623 
1624 
1625 

1626 
1627 
1628 
1629 
1630 

1631 
1632 
1633 
1634 
1635 

1636 
1637 
1638 
1639 
1640 

1641 
1542 
1643 
1644 
1645 

1646 
1647 
1648 
1849 
1650 

1651 

1552 
1653 
1654 
1655 

1656 
1657 
1658 
1659 
1660 

1661 
1662 
1663 
1664 



Powers, Annabel 

Powers, Marcus K 

Powers, Robert Allen. 
Powers, TheodoreiS.. 
Prange, Maggie 



Prante, Minnie . . . 
Pratelle, Mary J. . 
Pratt, Orville J.... 
Prayor, Mary F . .. 
Preble, William H. 



Prentiss, Harvey G. 

Pretekin, David 

Prevost, Mai ia H 

Prevost, William H . 
Price, Jonathan D . . 



Price, Levi D 

Prince, Edward 

Prince, Isham 

Pryor, Nellie O 

Przybylinski, Michael. 



Puckett, Dora B 

Puoketi, James Walter... 

Purcell, Ada 

Py, Mary 

Quertemous, Elizabeth C. 



Quinlan. Michael... 
Quinn, Patrick H.. . 

Quinn, Thomas 

Kable, Martha." 

Kabourn, Minerva , 



Race, Virginia 

Ralston, James E 

Rampley, Barah E 

Rapp, Joachim Henry Fred'k 
Rapp, Louisa 



Raser, Guy 

Ray, Elizabeth 

Ray, Henry Nelson. 

Ray, Sarah E 

Read, Alpheas B 



Read Franklin. 



Read, Mary 

Redfern, Caroline A. 

Redlieh, Rudolph 

Redig, Ann M 



Redmond, Malcolm. 

Reed, Anna 

Reed. Charles 

Reed, Mabel. 



Jacksonville 
Earlville .... 

Chicago 

CoUinsville. . 
Chicago 



Quincy 

Shawneetown. 

Macomb 

Minonk 

Chestervlle .. . 



Quincy 

Chicago 

Young_ America. 

Ridge Farm 



Ridge Farm 

Majority Point.. 



Cottonwood Grove... 
LaSalle 



Mt. Vernon.. 



"■'uUivan .. 

Joliet 

Clay City'. 



Hyde Park. 
Munster... . 
Coal Valley. 

Harvel 

Virginia 



Kane 

Sullivan 

Hickory Ridge. 

Evanston 

Spring Hill 



Chicago 
Paris.... 
Newton.. 
Ferrell.. . 
Perry ,.. 



Adams. 



Alton 

Albany 

Springfield.. 
Savanna . . . . 



Reed, Myrtle Oconee 



CoUinsville 

Oconee 

Menasha 

Highland Park. 



Reech, Louisa 

Regensburg, Oscar 

Reichinbach, Caroline. 
Reinholdt, Mary. 



1665 Reider, Harmon . 



1666 
1667 
1668 
1669 
1670 



Beitmeyer, Frederick. 

Beitz, Charles 

Benner, Sarah L 

Rennie, Samuel 

Renshaw, Margaret . . . 



Plato Center . 

Chicago 

Tremont 

Brier Bluff..., 
Lena 

Chicago 

Kankakee. . . . . 
Montezuma . . 

Elkin 

Hamilton 



Morgan 

LaSalle 

Cook 

Madison 

Cook 

Adams 

Gallatin 

McDonough. 
Woodford . . . 
Macoupin ... 

Adams 

Cook 

Warren 

Vermilion ... 

Vermilion . . . 
Cumberland 

Bond 

LaSalle 

Jefferson 

Moultrie 

Will 

Clay 

Cook 

LaSalle 

Bock Island.. 
Montgomery 
Cass 

Greene 

Moultrie 

Hancock 

Cook 

Whiteside . . . 

Cook 

Edgar 

Jasper 

Edgar 

Pike 

Adams 

Madison 

Whiteside. . . 
Sangamon.. . 
Can oil 

Madison 

Shelby 

Wis. (state)... 

Lake 

Shelby 

Kane 

Cook 

Tazewell 

Henry 

Stephenson.., 

Cook 

Kankakee .. . 

Pike 

Washington. 
Hancock 



1874 
1865 
1890 
1877 
1890 

1876 
1852 
1879 
1873 
1876 

1871 
1887 
1861 
1862 
1856: 

1856 
1863 
1863 
1882 
1885 

18»0 
1891 
1881 
1878 
1871 

1886 
1883 
1885 
1882 
1866 

1877 
1867 
1866 
1887 
1862 

1890 
1849 
1891 
1874 
1871 

1851 

1883 
1850 
1886 
1868 



1891 
1858 
1885 
1889 

1886 
1883 
1873 
1885 
1871 

1887 
1888 
1849 
1857 
1871 



G. . 11 

H. D.,1870 



D.R.,1880 



H.D.,1891 
D.R.,1853 
D.R.,1884 
D.R.,1881 
D.R.,1880 

H.D.,1874 



13 D.B.,1886 
12 

15 

8 
9 



H.D.,1869 
H.D.,1869 
H.D.,1865 

H.D..1865 
H.D.,1865 
H.D.,1869 



D.B.,1888 
D.B.,1891 
D.R.,1880 



D.R.,lb91 



D.B.,1888 
G., 1877 

D.E. 1881 
D.R.,1880 



H.D.,1871 



D., 1851 



D.R.,1884 
G., 1883 

G., 1862 



H.D..1855 
D.'R.iisSO 



G. , 1871 

H, D.,1888 



G. 1885 
D.R.,1881 
D.B.,1891 
D.B. 1876 



H.D.1858 
H.D.1865 
B.S ,1874 



105 



: — Continued . 



DEAFNESS. 

Cause. 


Age. 


Deaf Kblatives. 


Consan- 
guinity OF 
Parents .. 


Remarks. 






















GrJithGriDg in, ears. . 
Diptheria 


3 weeks. 
Smontlis 
B 












































T> 








Spinal meningitis.. 






















r> 






























B 


Sr. (1623)1 








2 years. . 
I y ear . . . 


R »• l^ ROR\ 
























1 year, , . 








Spinal meningitis . 
Sick on th.e ocean, . 














TD/-n1 a 




"D_ ft con. 








B 








wiiooping cougn.. 














c 












2d Cs 






1 > 




r • 


isumeci witn jyej. .. 


















Spinal meningitis . 
















M'dd. m. (2106) 




T> 






























9 weeks. 








Scarlet fever 






Md. d. m. (129) 










































Fever 












B. 






iVL Q Q. m. iio/y) ted,cnt3r 1 11. 
Inst. Cl'gym'n Cong. Oil. 






















R 








Sickness 


3 vfiars 








1 year. .. 


















b 


Br 




M'd U. m. (C6) 


Scarlet fever 












B 


















Spinal meningitis.. 


13 y ears . 








^ Br (149) 














German 












Spinal meningitis . . 


















Spasms .-. 


SYi years 






iGe man.M'd d. m. (42(i)... 

















1611 
1612 
1613 
1614 
1615 

1616 
1617 
1618 
1619 

1620 

1621 
1622 
1623 
1624 
1625 

1620 
1627 
1628 
1629 
1630 

1631 
1632 
1633 
1634 

1035 

1636 
1637 
1638 
1039 
1640 

1641 

1642 
1643 
1644 
1S45 

164( 
1647 
1645 
1049 
1650 

1051 

1052 
105:-! 
1654 
1655 

1050 

1657 

lOi 

1659 

1600 

1661 
1662 
1663 
1004 
1065 

lOOi: 
1007 
1608 
1669 



106 



List oi Pupils' 



Name. 



postoffice 
Addeess. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 
Dis- 

CHAEGE 



Rettle. Charles 

Betz, Sherman Andrew. 

Reverman, Gerhard 

Reynolds, Addison A 

Reynolds, Alexander E,. 



1671 
1672 
1673 
1674 
1675 

16/6 
1677 
1678 
1679 

1680 Rhodes, Grace A. 



1681 
168J 
1683 
1684 
1685 



Reynolds, Emma J. 
Reynolds Hiram... 

Rhoads, Maud 

Rhodes. Eiastus A.. 



Rhoweder, Frederick .. 

Rice, Matthew 

Richards, Lizzie A 

Richardson, Edward E. 
Richardson, Julia B 



1686 Ricks, Adelia 

1687!Riegle, Euphemia Caroline. 

1688 Riggs, Martha 

1689 Rinderer, Oscar David 

1690 Rink, Arthur 



1691 Rist, Charles 

1692 Eist, May 

1693 Riordan, Harry 

1694 Ritchie, Louis N.. .. 

1695 Roberts, George H. 



Robertson, Aaron L. 
Robinson, Daniel O. 
Kobinson, George... 
Robinson, HattieM.. 
Robinson, Rowena.. . 



1696 
1697 
1698 
1699 
1700 

1701 
1702 
1703 
1704 
1705 

1706 

1707 
1708 
1709 
1710 

1711 
1712 
1713 
1714 
1715 

1716 
1717 
1718 
1719 
1720 



Roehus. August , 

Rock, Harry W 

Kodenberger, Augustus 

lio.ers, Cliarles L 

Rogers, Frederick H 



Rogers. Thomas J . 



Rogos, Michael . 
Kohde, Annie . .. 
Root, Geoi ge C . 
Roper, Annie M. 



Ropp, Annie M 

Rosden. George 

Ho--e, F ank 

Rose, Reuben 

Bosenberger, .Nicholas. 



Rosendahl, Charles. 
Rosenthal, Moses. .. 

Ross, Edivai d 

Roth. Johu F 

Ro h, Julia 



1721 l^oth, Loui«aB 

1722 Rottlor. John 

1723 Rouch, Margaret 

1724 Rowan, John 

1725 Rowan, Kate 



1726 
1727 
1728 
1729 
1730 



Rowan, Michael 

Rowland, Amanda 

Rozenski, Englebert . 

Ruby, (ieorfjH 

Ruby, John H 



West Belleville 

Ottawa 

Carlyle 

Chicago 

Berwick 



Sterling 

Martinsburg . 

Benton 

Champaign. .. 



Chicago 

West Salem . 

Lincoln 

Ashley 

Taylorville.. , 



Beardstown. 

Rinard 

Ashley 

Highland 

Beardstown. 



Bowen.. 



Ottawa 

Ui)per Alton. 
lUiopolis 



Van lalia.. 

Dillon 

Elkville... 
Sycamore 
DelRey. .. 



French Village. 

Sterling 

Waterloo 

Canton 

Tonica 



San Jose. 
Chicago . 



Bloomington. 
Alton 



Vandalia. 
Newton. . 

Utiea 

Vermont. 
Peoria . . . 



Moliue.. 
Chicago 
Peoria .. 
Chicago. 



Chicago ... 

Galena 

Quincy 

Braceville . 



Braeeville .. . 
Prairie City . 

Chicago 

Blackburn... 
Taylorville . . 



St. Clair. 
LaSalle... 
Clinton.. . 

Cook 

Warren. . 



Whiteside 

Pike 

Franklin 

Champaign. .. 



1889 
18S3 
1849 

1868 
1856 
1890 
1878 
1878 



Cook 1874 

Edwards 1880 

T ,8j^5 

1873 
1882 



Logan 
Washington. 
Christian 



Cass 

Wayne 

Mo. (state) .. . 

Madison 

Cass 



Hancock. 



LaSalle 

Madison 

Sangamon... 



Fayette..., 
Tazewell . 
Jackson... 
DeKalb . . 
Iroquois.., 



St. Clair... 
Whiteside. 

Monroe 

Pulton 

LaSalle. ... 



Mason., 
Cook... 



McLean.. 
Madison . 



Fayette.. 
Jasper... 
LaSalle.. 
Fulton .. 
Peoria .. 



Bock Island., 

Cook 

Peoria 

Cook 



Cook 

JoDavie-s... 

xdams 

Grundy 



Grundy 

McDonough. 

Cook 

Christian 



1889 
1887 
1847 
1889 
1886 



1888 
1890 
1864 
1881, 

1863 
1855 
18i9 
18(18' 
1856 

1882 
1871 
1882 
1x73 
1882 

1868 

1889 
1890 
1878 
1876 

1882 
1876 
1888 
1891 
1862 

1869 
1881 
1891 
1862 



18.58 
1877 
1862 
1886 
1885 

1885 
1866 
18-7, 
1891' 
1880 



G., 1862 

R.S.,1875 
D.R. 1856 



G. 
G, 

D., 
G., 



1885 



1878 
1892 



D.R.,1884 
D.R. 1884 



H.D.1853 



H.D.,1870 
D.R. 1884 



13 D. 1864 

14 H.D.,1X60 
12 H.D.,1878 
12 H.D.,1880 
16 H.D.,1864 



10 



D.R.,1884 



D.B.,1886 
R.S.,1884 

G., 1883 



1890 
1884 



D.R,. 1886 
H.D.,1888 
D.B.,1890 



H.D.,1872 

D.R.,1880 
D.R.,1884 



G., 1873 



H.D.,1870 
D., 1880 
H.D.,1869 



D.R.,18M 

D.R.,1891 
H.D.,1872 



H.D.,1889 



—Continued. 



107 



Deafness. 



Cause. 



Age. 



Deaf Eelatives. 



Remabks. 



1071 1 

Iti72 Unknown 

1873 

1674|Brani fever. . 
1075 Scarlet fever 



1077 
1G7S 



5 years. 

B 

b mo'.s. . 



Nephew.. 



German , 



German 



Typhoid fever 

Spiual meningitis.. 

1079!Lung fever 

lOso Brain fever 



4 years. 



4 mo's.. 



Sr. (1680). 
Br. (1679). 



1681 

1082 Winter fever 

lOSJ Scarlet fever 

lOstlFever 

lOSj j s pinal meningitis . 

1080 j 

1687; Para lysis and fever 

1688 Risings in ears 

I68y 

1691) Spinal meningitis.. 

1691 Catarrh 

1692 



5 years. 
3 years. 
18 mo's. 



2 3d Cs. 



German; drowned 



German 



1693 

1694 Sickness 

1695 Bronchial aflCection 



1696 

1697 Winter fever. 

169SFall 

1699j Scrofula 

l^vO, Sickness 



B 

13 mo's.. 

1 i<2 years 

B 

4 years.. 



2 years. 

B 

B 

6 mo's. . 

3 years. 



German 



B., 



3 years. 
3 years. 



1701 

1702!spinal meningitis. 
1703, Spinal meningitis. 

1701 'Brain fever 

1705 



13 mo's. 
B 



Sickness 

Convulsions 

Spinal meningitis . 



Spinal meningitis 
Pall and sickness. 

Sickness 

Unknown 

Sunstroke 



1706 Fever.. 



1707' 
1708' 
17091 
1710 

mil 

1712 
1713 
1714 
1715 

1716 
1717 
1718 
1719 
1720 

1721 
1722 
1723 
1724 
1725 

1726 
1727 
1728 
1729 
17.J0 



2 years . . 

18 mo's.. 
9 mo's. . . 



5 years. 
3 years. 



Scarlet fever 

Colds y^V.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'. 

Galhering in head 



Spinal meningitis. 



B 

7 years.. 

B 

10 mo's.. 

B 



Gathering in head, 
Siokness 



14 mo's 
156 years 



B. , 



2d Ci 



M'dd. m(l:i31). 

German 

German 



Sr. (1692); G. U. . 
Br. (1691); G. U. 



M'dd. m. (801). 
M'd d. m. (267). 



German 

M'd d. m. (1760). 



2 3d Cs. 



Became teacher in Illinois- 
Institute 

Pole 

German 



Became a teacher in St^ 

Louis, Mo 

M'd a man not deaf 



German 
German 



Hebrew 



Sr. (1721), ?6 Bro. (1495)... 
Pr. (1719), Mr. (325), }i U. 

Br. (1719), 56 Br. (1495).... 



Br. (1726),8r.(1725),U. (556) 
2 Brs. (1724) (1726), U. (556) 

Br. (1724), Sr. (1725), U. (556) 



German; m'd d. m. (324) 

German . 

German; m'd d. m. (2095)... 

German 

German 

Irish 

Irish 



2 Brs. (1730) (1731). 
2 Brs. (1731) (1727). 



Irish.. 

Poie. '. 



108 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffce 
Addbess. 



County of 
Bf.sidence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 

Dis- 
charge. 



1731 
1732 
1733 
•1731 
1735 

•1736 
1737 
1738 

11739 
•1740 

1741 
1742 
1743 
1744 
1745 

1746 
11747 
1748 
1749 
1750 

1751 

1752 
1753 
1754 
1755 

1756 
1757 
1758 
1759 
3750 

1761 

1762 
1763 
1764 
1765 



Ruby, William W . .. 
RuudequisT, Dora C 
Russell, Charles D.. 

Russell, Herbert 

Russell. Matilda W.. 



Rust, Ernestine J 

Rust, Ida 

Ru'-t, .lennie J 

Bu.st, Mannie 

Rutherford, Henry L. 



Rutledge, Orrin 1? . 
Ryan, B'3n,iamin F. 

Ryan, Alice 

Ryan, David 

Ryan, Lucy C 



Ryder. D^ lia Rosa .. 

addler, Charles 

Saffer, Nancy M 

Sahlberc, Frank E.. 
Salmans, Catharine. 



Sammons, John 

Sampson, Adaline 

Samuelson. ClausW 

Samuelson. TacK Edoin. 
Sand berg, John Emil. . . . 



Sanders, John W 

Sanford, Henry Baldwin. 

Santord, Sophia C 

Santee, Thomas L 

Sargent, Jesse B 



Sartori, Agnes 

Sartorius, William. 
Sauerwein. John . . 

Sauger, Elise 

Saunders, Clara 



1766 Saunders, Milton , 
J767 Sautter, Jacob 

1768 Sautter, John 

1769 Saville, Andrew.. 

1770 Sawyer, Frank... 



1771 
1772 
1773 
1774 
1775 



Scheidel. Catherine. .. 
Schiepering, Edward. 

Sehindler, Amelia 

Schiimer, William 

Schlegel, Herman E .. 



1776 Schmidt. Charles H .. 

1777!Sf-hmi(lt, Mary 

1778 Schmidt, William P. .. 

1779|Schmitt. Alice 

1780|Schnabelius, William. 



1781 

I78:i 
1783 
l7.-!4 
1785 



Schneider. Benne 

Sehock Kmma 

Sehoiiemann.Fred'k Wilhelm 

Schorr, John 

Sohott, John 



1786 Sehrader, Henry O . . 

1787 Schroder, John 

1788 Schroeder, Erne.st A.. 

1789 Schultz, Frederick E . 
l79u|Schupp, Joseph 



Taylorville 

Elgin 

LaSalle 

Rockford 

Lacon 

King Station . 
New Baden. .. 
King Station . 

Fairbury 

Macomb 

Qumoy 

Springfield ... 

Alton 

Rushville 

Chicago 

Augusta 

Astoria 

Chicago 

Charleston . .. 

Butler 

Petersburg. .. 

Elgin 

Englewood. . . 
Batavia 

Danville 

Afton 

Jefferson 

Pink Prairie . 
Windsor 

Joliet 

Dixon 

Dutch Hill.. .. 

Quincy 

Jacksonville . 

Springfield . . . 
Aurora 

Rparland 

Leiand 

Pekin 

Quincy 

Peru 

Belleville 

Wetaug 

Aurora 

Chicago 

Mendon 

Effingham 

Melville 

Peoria 

Manito 

Chicago 

Nauvoo 

New Memphis 

Chicago 

Beecber 

Rock Island... 



Christian 

Kane 

LaSalie 

Winnebago . 
Marshall 

Ogle 

Clinton 

Ogle 

Livingston . . 

McDonough. 

Adams 

Sangamon... 

Madison 

Schuyler 

Cook 

Hancock 

Fulton 

Cook 

Coles 

Montgomery.. 

Menard 

Kane 

Cook 

Kane 

Vermilion ... 

DeKalb 

Cook 

Henry 

Shelby 

Will 

Lee 

St. Clair 

Adams 

Morgan 

Sangamon . . . 
Kane 

Marshall 

LaSalle 

Tazewell 

Adams 

LaSalle 

St. Clair 

Pulaski 

Kane 

Cook 

Adams 

EfSngbam . . 

Madison 

Peoria 

Mason 

Cook 

Hancock .... 

Clinton 

Cook 

Will 

Rock Island., 



1881 
1879 
lf.92 
1886 
1857 

18' 

1882 

1877 

18h2 

1884 

1885 
1880 
1886 
1889 
1879 

1891 
1867 
1851 
1884 
1862 

1861 
1867 
1871 

1888 
1887 

1876 
i; 
1849 
1881 
1870 

1869 
1872 
1870 
1867 
"1858 

1849 
1859 
1859 
1880 



1874 
1880 
1879 
1889 
1878 

1872 
1889 
1886 
1868 
1887 

1879 
1880 
1889 
1868 
1891 

1879 
1891 
1879 
1885 
867 



D.R.,1880 



D.R.,1891 
H.D.,1864 



9 D.B.,1891 
10 

10 D.R.,1891 

8 
10 



H.D.,1880 



D.R.,1880 
D.K.,1854 

G. , 1892 

H. D.,1870 




G. , 1860 

H. D.,1869 
H.D.,1869 



D.R.,1878 
D.R.,1886 
D.B.,1S91 



1883 



D.R.,1887 
H.D..1879 



G., 
D.R. 



1890 
1887 



D.R.,1878 



H.D.,1890 



U.R.,1891 
H.DV,i87i 



109 



— Continued. 



Deafness. 



Cause. 



Age. 



Deaf Relatives. 



2 H 01 

CO o 



Remaeks. 



Inflammation ears. 

Brain fever 

Measles 



1731 

1732 Spasms.. 

1733 * " 
1734 
1735 

1736 
1737 
1738 
1739 
1740 

1741 
1742 
1743 
1744 
1745 

1746 
1747 
1748 
1749 

1750 



B 

1 year... 

2 mo's. . 
0 mo's. . 
7 years. 



Spina! meningitis. 
Brain fever 



1 year. 



Scarlet fever., 



Scarlet fever., 
Measles 



2 years. 

3 years. 

. years. 
B 

4 years. 
15 mo's. 
1 year. . 



1751 
1752 

1753|Graf]ual decadence 
1754|Sicknes= 
1755|Sickness 



3756 
1757 
1758 

1760, 

1761 
1762 
1763 
1764 
1765 

1766 
1767 
1768 
1769 
1770 

1771 
1772 
1773 
1774 
1775 

1776 
1777 
1778 
1779 
1780 

1781 
1782 
1783 
1784 
1785 

1786 
1787 
1788 
1789 
1790 



2 Brs. (1730) (1727) 
2d C 



2 Srs. (1738) (1739). 



2 Srs. (1736) (1739). 
2 Srs. (1736) (1738). 



5 mo's. . 



2 years 
2% years 



4th C 



4th C 
4th C 



2 Gr. A 



Swede., 



M'd d. m. i791). 



Cs. 



Irish 

Irish 

M'd d. m. (789)., 



Swede . 



M'd d. m.a924). 



Swede . 
Swede . 
Swede . 



Catarrh 

Typhus fever 
Lung fever. .. 
Brain fever. . . 



4 years. 
7 years. 

5 mo's. . 



;'d d. m. (1405) 



Scarlet fever . 



4 years. 



M'd d. m. (17021 

German; m'd d. m. 



Cramps 

Scarlet fever. 
Measles 



Sickness 

Scarlet fever . 



4 mo's . . 
B 

3 years. 

fi mo's.. 

B 

B 

1 mo . . . 

4 years. 



Br. (1768). 
Br. (1767). 



Cs.. 



German 

French 

M'd d. m. (1183). 



M'dd. m. (138) 

German; m'd d. m. 

German 

Irish 

Norwegian 



Spinal meningitis. 



2 4th Cs. 



5 years 

B 

B 



Brain fever. 
Sickness . . . 



2 years. 
2 years. 



German ; m'd man not deaf 

German 

German 

German 

German 



German 
German 
German 
German; 
German 



m'd d. m. (2017). 



Inflammation brain 
Cholera infantum 

Sickness 

Fevc-'r 

Catarrh 



Typhoid fever 



s pinal meningitis . 
Sickness 



1% years 
8)^ years 
I year 



11 mo's., 
B 



German 

German 

German 

German; m'd d, m. (1994) 
German 



1 U., 1 Gr. U 



German 

German 

Ge' man 

German 

German; m'd d. m. (1394): 
divorced; m'd d. m. (1178) 



110 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Address. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 

Dis- 
chakge. 



Mm 
■ H 



1791 
1702 
1793 
1794 
1795 



Sehurtz, Mary 

Sehuh^ter, Emma Henrietta 

Schuitler, Charles J 

S hwandt, Paul A 

Schwartz, Charles 



1796 Schwartz, John 

1797 Schweitzer. John A 

1798 Scorse, David 

1799 Scott, Aurelia H 

1800 Scott, Ellen Y 



Scott. Jessie 

Seribner. Annie... 
Soribner, Grover. 
Seribner, Minnie. 
Serivner, Wesley 



1801 
1802 
1803 
1804 
1805 

1806 
1807 
1808 
1809 

1810 Seymour, Emma I. 



Scruggs, Josephine 
Seaton, Charles D .. 

Seamans, Almira 

Semlow, Elizabeth.. 



Seymour, Paul E 

Shack, Marr 

Shaffer, Elizabeth M , 

sharp, Margaret E 

Sharp, Mary 



Shattuek, Letitia A. 

Shatwell, Fred. 

Shaughnessy, Kate. 
Shaul, William M . .. 
Sha Lewis 



1811 
1812 
1813 
1814 
1815 

1816 
1817 
1818 
1819 
1820 

1821 

1822 
1823 
1824 
1825 

1826 
1827 
1828 
1829 
1830 

1831 



1832 Sherrod. David A . 



Shaw, William K... 

Shean, Francis 

Shearer, Nathan ... 
Sherfley, Edward.. . 
Sheldon, Gertrude. 



Shelly, Hartwell 

Shelton, Martha E 

Sheneman, Mahala A . 

Shepar , Dolly M 

Shepard, Mabel Rose. 

Sherman, John 



1833 
18.34 
1835 



Shields, Charles E. 

Shields. Rosa A 

Shipley. Luoinda I. 



1836jShoemaker, Ralph Abraham. 



Sholl, James N 
Shell, Kavmond P 

Shores, J (din 

Shores, Thomas... 



1837 
1838 
1839 
1840 



1841 Shortzer, Sarah A 

18-12. Shoup. Josephine 

1843,Showalter, Temperance. 

1844IShultz, Catharine H 

1815 Siblev, Charles E 



1846 
1847 
1848 
1849 
1850 



Sidles, Thomas J 

Sigler, Ida N 

Simmons, John W . . . 
Simmons, Phcebe A . 
Simmons, Thomas S. 



Evanston . 
Chicago . . 



Bloomington. 
Jersey ville . .. 



Morton Grove 

Galena 

Jacksonville,... 

Chrisman 

Gibson City ... 



Duncan .. 
Oakland , 



Oakland 

Lynchburg.. 



Macomb 

West Point. 

Ottawa 

Chicago 

Chillicothe . 



Franklin.. . 
Columbia... 
Illiopo is.. . 
Elm Point . 
Hennepin . 



Hanover 

Union Grove . 

Chicago 

Barry 

Lima 



Shabonna 

Cliicago 

Pleasant Vale. 

Cairo 

Normal 



Woodstock., 
Millersburg . 

Elkhart 

Decatur 

Chicago 



Granville.. 



Paw Paw 

Lawr^ nceville 

Atlanta 

Palmyra 



Oakland , 
Peoria ... 



Alton 

Wabash 



Sullivan 

Chicago 

Chandlerville . 

Centralia 

Fairfield 



Exeter 

East St. Louis . 
Jacksonville . .. 
Quincy 



Cook. 



McLean , 
Jersey... 



Cook 

JoDaviess. 

Morgan 

Edgar 

Ford 



Stark 
Coles 



Coles 

Jefferson.. 



McDonough . 

Hancock 

LaSalle 

Cook 

Peoria 



Morgan 

Monroe. ... 
Sangamon. 

Bond 

Putnam ... 



JoDaviess. 
Whiteside . 

Cook 

Pike 

Adams 



DeKalb .... 

Cook 

Pike 

Alexander. 
McLean . . . 



McHenry-. 

Bond 

Logan 

Macon 

Cook 



Putnam. 



Michigan . 
Lawrence , 

Logan 

Macoupin 



Coles . . 
Peoria. 



Madison.. 
Wayne.. . 



Moultrie . 

Cook 

Cass 

Marion . . 
Wayne. . . 



Scott 

St. Clair 
Morgan. 
Adams.. 



1879 
1891 
1877 
1879 
1891 

1879 
1878 
1868 
1878 
1877 

1884 
1891 

189') 
1889 
1862 

1872 
1877 
1854 
1890 
1876 

1891 
1881 

1880 
1867 
1869 

1864 
1882 

im 

1859 
1889 

1S83 
1877 
184!) 
1865 
1890 

1880 
1807 
1874 
1887 
1»87 

1859 

1869 
1878 
1875 



187!) 
1877 
1854 
1852 

1876 
1888 
1857 
18.57 
1877 

1872 
1873 
1x61 
1857 
1846 



10 



D.R.,1887 



D.R.,1886 
G., 1890 



H.D.,1887 
D.R. 1887 
D.R.,1881 
D.R. 18!*9 
D.R.,1884 



D., 1892 



H.D.,1867 



11 D.R.,1881 

10 G. -~" 



H.D.,1862 



D.R.,1886 



D.R.,1886 
D.R.,1880 
R.S.,1876 

H.D..1870 
Ex., 1891 
O.K., 1891 
D.R.,1862 



H.D.,1889 
D.R.,1886 
H.D„1859 
DR., 1867 



R.S.,1884 
H.D.,1869 
D.R.,1878 



H.D..1867 

H.D.,1870 
D.R.,1891 
G. 1889 
U.R..1887 



D.R.,1888 
D.R.,1X84 
H.D.,1862 
H.D.,1856 

D.R.,1888 



H.D.,1864 
H.D.,I8C0 
G., 1891 

G. . 1881 
R.S.,1K75 
D.R.,1865 
D., 18.57 

H. D.,1852 



— Contiuued. 



Ill 



Deafness, 



Cause. 



Age. 



Deaf Relatives. 



Bemarks. 



1791 Teething 

1792 Cold 

1793 

1794 1 Spinal meningitis 
17951 



2)6 years 
B.... 



Br.. U. and A 



German ., 
Prussian 
Germim ., 
German . 
German . 



1796 Spinal meningitis. 

1797 

1798 Fever 

1799 

1800 Diphtheria 



1801 

1802 
18113 
180-1 
1805 



6 mo's. 
B 



German 

German 

Portuguese ; killed on B. E 



1806 
1807 
1808 
18li9 
1810 



Spinal meningitis 



3 years. 



Sr. (1804). Br. (1803). 
2Srs (1802). (1804)... 
Br. (1803), Sr. (1802). 



2d Cs 
2d Cs 

ad Cs 



InflammRtion brain 
Spinal menlngiits.. 



Unknown 



4 years.. 

B 

years 
B 



1811 

1812 Spinal meningitis. 

18131 

1814! 

181i Cold 



B. 



1816 
1817 
1818 
1819 
1820 



1 year. 



Sickness 

Scarlet fever. 



Spinal meningitis . . 
Spinal meningitis.. 



B 

4 mo's. 



2 As.. 1 U. 



1821 
1822 
1823 Sickness 
1824 

1 Bronchitis 



4 mo's. 



1 year. 
4 mo's. 



3d Cs 



M'd. d. m. (431). 



German 



German , 



M'd d. m. (1358). 
M'dd. m. (956) ... 



English. 

Irish 

German 



Irish, m'd d. m. (155) 



1825 



Pall. 



1826 
1827 
1828 
1829 

1830 So'rl'tfevr.dlph'rla 



1831 



6 years. 

B 

B 



1832;Spinal meningitis. 

1833:Feve 

1834 Measles 

1835, Spinal meningitis. 



1836|Unkno-wn 

1837|Spinal meningitis. 

1838 Neivous fever 

1839 Scarlet fever 

1840 Spinal meningitis. 



3>6 yean 
B 

2 years., 

3 years.. 



Br.. 4th C. 



3 mo's. .. 

5% years 



Br. (1838). 4th C. 
Br. (1837) 



1481 
1482 
1483 
1484 
1485 

1846 
1847 
1848 
1849 
1850 



rain fever. 
Spasms 



B 

1>6 years 



Fever . 



Spinal meningitis. 

Fever 

Spinal meningitis. 



Cold 



B 

7 years.. 

2?6 ypars 
5 mo's. .. 
2V4 years 
B 



Hr. (1850). 
Sr. (1819). 



English 

M'd a hearing woman, di- 
vorced an. 1 m'd d.m.(1362) 



German 



German 
German 



Russian 



2d C. 



M'dd. m. (1087). 



M'd d. m. (626). 



112 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



POSTOFFICE 
^DDBESS. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode OF 
Dis- 

CHAEGE. 



■ H 



1851 
1852 
1853 
1854 
1855 

1856 
1857 
1858 
1859 
1860 

1861 
1862 
1863 

1864 
1865 

1866 
1867 
1868 
1869 
1870 

1871 
1872 
3873 
1874 



Sims, Sarah P 

Sinclair, Mary Agnes... 

Sir, Alma 

Skeen, Robert Rodney.. 
Skidmore, Alza'P 



Sliinner, Abigail M. 

Skobis, Joiin 

Slean, Robert 

Sloan, Carrie A 

Slover, Lizzie 



Sluser, .James B 

Smallwood, David 

Smallwood. Mary Josephine. 



Smith, Ansel .. . . 
Smith, Caroline. 



Smith, Charles W 

Smith, Edward W 

Smith, Emma A 

Smith, Emma Charles. 
Smith, Fannie J 



Smith, George W . 
Smitli, Gertrude . , 

Smith, Jacob 

Smith, James. 



1875 Smith, JohnH. 



1876 
1877 
1878 
1879 
1880 

1881 
1882 
1883 
1884 
1885 

1880 
1887 
1888 
1889 
1890 

1891 
1892 
1893 
1894 
1895 

189(: 
1897 
1898 
1899 
1900 

1901 
1902 
1903 
1904 
1905 



Smith, Jonathan ....... 

Smith, Julia C 

Smith, Louisa 

Smith, Mary C. P 

Smith, Mary Florence. 



Smith, Samuel A 

Smith, Sarah M 

Smith, Susie 

Smith. Thomas 

Smith, William Mather. 



Smith, William M. V.. 

Smith. William S 

Smitherman, Spencer 

Smizer, John J. F 

Snead. Alice M 



Snerly, Bertha Ethel 

Snider, Irena 

Snook, Albert 

Snyder, John Everett 

Solflsburg, Lydia EUzabeth. 



Sonifrank. Olive J 

Souder, Wilbert P 

Spauldmg. Annette 

Sp lUlding, Frank 

Spears, Alexander Frank . 



Spears, Freeman 8 , 
Spencer, Martha E. 
Spielmaa, Harry.. . 
Sprague, Ezra B ... 
Sproch, John 



1906 Sproul, Baseom C. 

1907 Stafford, Ralph .... 
19ii8jStafford. William.. 
1909 St. Ange.Marv C. 
19101 Stark, Anna b 



Middlebury 

Chicago 

Jan Jose 

Jacksonville 

Dunton 

Chicago 

Peoria 

Flora 

Mattoon 

Oak Point 

Chicago 

Centreville Station 

Yellow Head 

Chambersburg 

Pekln 

Albion 

Crescent City 

Chicago 

Mt. Sterling 

Girard 

Port Byron. 

Chicago 

Virden 

Little Muddy 

Aurora 

Warsaw 

Alton 

St. Augustine 

St. Augustine 

Elm Point 

Chicago 

' arbondale 

Trumbull Station.. 

Chesterfield 

Decatur 

Zanesville 

Sullivan 

Bloomington 

pfeasaiit HiYl '. '. '. 

Atlanta 

Vernon 

Aurora 

Oakley 

Reynolds 

Chicago 

Streator 

Ashland 

Pittsfleld 

Dixon 

(rreenville 

Spriugfleld 

Franklin Grove 

Rock Island 

Ea-t St. Louis 

Joliet 

Indian ola 



Mo. (State). 
Cook 



Mason . . 
Morgan.. 

Cook.... 



Peoria . 
Clay ... 
Coles.. . 



Clark . . . 

Cook 

St. Clair 



Kankakee 

Pike 



Tazewell , 
Edwards , 
Iroquois.. 

Cook 

Brown ... 



Macoupin .. . 
Bock Island. 
Cook 



Macoupin .. 



Franklin. 

Kane 

Hancock. 
Madison.. 
Knox 



Knox . ... 

Bond 

Cook 

Jackson . 
White.... 



Macoupin 

Macon 

Montgomery. 

Moultrie 

McLean 



Fayette . 
Pike .... 
Logan . . 
viarion . 
Kane 



Macon 

Rock Island. 
Cook 



LaSalle , 



Cass 

Pike 

Lee 

Bond 

Sangamon. 



Lee 

Roc!; Island. 

St. Clair 

Will 

Vermilion .. . 



1848 
1891 
1886 
1859 
1881 

1873 
1886 
1891 
1881 
1883 

1872 
1853 
1876 

1873 
1854 

1867 
1871 
1886 
1887 
1872 

1873 
1865 
1890 
1871 
1868 

1857 
1866 
1872 
1855 
1864 

1864 
1867 
1891 
1883 



1853 
1882 
1878 
1850 
1878 

1891 
1864 
1880 
1891 
1890 

1876 
1890 
1872 
1874 



1880 
1863 
1)~83 
1800 
1859 

1871 
1891 
1879 
1879 
1873i 



H.D.,1852 



D.R.,1891 
H.D.,1866 



G., 1878 



D.R.,1892 
U.R.,1888 
D.B.,1884 

G., 1883 
D. 1854 

G. , 1885 

H, D.,1885 
H.D..1855 

D.R.,1880 
D.R.,1881 
D., 1888 
D.R. 1891 
D.R.,1881 

H.D..1874 
H.D.,1874 



D.R.,1881 
D.R.,1880 

D.R.,1860 
D.R..1878 
D.R..1876 
H.D.,1863 
H.D.,1870 

R.S.,1874 
H.D.lf 
D.R.,1891 



D.R.,1891 
H.D.,1855 



D.R, 1888 
G.. 1802 
D.R.,188U 



D.B.,1866 
D.R.,1891 



D.R.,1882 



D.R.,1884 
Ex., 1883 



D.R.,186B 



H.D.,1868 
D.R.,1863 



1881 



11 G., 

15i 

19,D R.,1 
7 D.B.,1886 
10!d.R.,1886 



— Continued. 



113 



1851 

i8oa 

1853 
1854 
1855 

1856 
1857 
1858 
1859 
1860 

1861 
1862 
1863 

1864 
1865 

1866 
1867 
1868 
1869 
1870 

1871 
1872 
1873 
1874 
1875 

1876 
1877 
1878 
1879 
1880 

1881 
1882 
1883 
1884 
1885 

1886 
1887 
1888 
1889 
1890 

1891 
1892 
1893 
1894 
1895 

1896 
1897 
1848 
1899 
1900 

1901 
1902 
1903 
1904 
1905 

1906 
1907 
1908 
1909 
1910 



Deafness. 


Deaf Relatives. 


Consan- 
guinity OF 
Parents... 


Remabks. 


Cause. 


Age. 






B 








Spinal meningitis.. 


















Spinal meningitis . 
















































Scrofula 












p 




























Ciatn'^rrjg m nead. 








KjOl. matron, teacher col, 
M'd d. m. (412) 


■R 
















Spinal meningitis.. 


















Gathering in ears.. 






































Inflam mation b rain 
Whooping cough. . . 




























T> 














































English; m'dd.m. (1651)1.. 


















T • U 




D 




Cs... 














TJ 


















Whooping cough . . 










Spinal meningitis.. 






































































1^ years 








Measles 








Gathering in head. 
Scrofula, scarlet f.. 




















Br (1899) 




M'd d m 




B 


















Spinal meningitis.. 










Scarlet fever 






















B 






M*d d. m. (1393) 




B 








Spinal meningitis.. 










Catarrh 


2)6 years 








Congestive chill . . . 
Spinal meningitis . . 






M'dd. m. (1397) 






C... 
Gs... 




B 







114 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Addbess. 



County or 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



O > 

p 115 



Mode OF 
Dis. 

CHAEGB. 



1911 
1912 

1913 
1914 
1915 

19l(i 
1917 
1918 
1919 
19i!U 

1921 
1922 
1923 
1924 
1925 

1926 
1927 
1928 
1929 



Stearns, Heibert^C — 

Stee.y, Frank E 

Srein, William 

Steinman, Louisa 

Steinmetz, Matthias T. 



Stemmer, James H — 
Steinagel, Charles P... 

Stephens, Addie 

Stephens, Ambrose H. 
Stephens, Delmar. .' 



Stephens, Franklin 

Stephens, Frederick W. 

St'-phens, Luella 

Stephenson, Virginia L. 
Sterchi, Annie L 



Sterchi, George William. 

Sterling, George 

Sterling, Harriet 

Sterling, Truman D. 



1930 Stevenson, George. 



1931 
1932 
1933 
1934 
1935 

1936 
1937 
1938 
1939 
1310 

1941 
1942 
1943 
1944 
1945 

194G 
1947 
1948 
1949 
1950 

1951 
1952 
1953 
1954 
1955 

1956 
1957 
1958 
1959 
1960 

1961 
1962 
1963 
1961 
1905 

1966 
1967 
1968 
1969 
1970 



Stewart, Bertie Owen 

Stewart, Charles A 

Stewart, Cha:les D.... 

Stewart, George P 

Stewart, Mary M 



Stewart, William 

Stiles, Amo^ 

Stiles, Sarah J 

StinchO' mb. JohnE. 
Stinson, Sarah 



Stivers, Mary J 

Stokes, Fred 

Stolle, Louisa 

Stoneburg, Mary 

Stotts, George Abraham. 



Stoeshel, Matilda Dora. 

Stout, Frank M 

Stout. Milton E 

Stout, John M 

Stratton, Emma Maria . 



Stratton, Nancy C 

Straut, Emma AnnaE. 

Streb, Jos<'ph 

Strolow, Mary 

Strenning, Louisa 0... 



Strickler, Minnie 

Stroll, Mary J 

Stroheker, Charles P. 
btroup, Loren/o L... 
Stryker, Frederick... 



Stuart. Elmer E 

Stuart, John Guy. . 
Sturgeon, John M, . 
Sturgeon, Louisa J. 
Sturgeon, Luciuda. 



Sturgeon, Margaret S. 

Stuttsman, A.-a A 

Stuttsman, Ha J 

Sullivan, Johanna 

Sullivan, Mary 



Bonus 

Watseka.... 

Chicago 

Shannon . .. 
Chicago 

Savanna 

Quinoy 

Weston 

Bobinson. .. 
Weston 

Weston 

Sheridan . .. 

WesLon 

Nilwood 

Dundas 

Dundas 

Chicago 

Berwick 

Aurora 

Ferrell 

Streator .... 
Tennessee . 

Ashley 

Tennessee . 

Braidwood.. 
Deer Plain.. 

Watseka 

Morris 

Greenup .... 

Bridgeport.. 

Chicago 

Evansville. . 
Bishop Hill. 
Munmouth . 

Dundee 

Fairmount.. 

Mt. Sterling 
Rutland 

Pontiae 

Chicago 

New tiaden 

(Chicago 

Chicago 

Chicago , 

Oregon 

Naperville.. , 
Pesotum .... 
Lockpoi-t ... 

Alsey 

Chicago 

Victoria 

Ramsey 

Ramsey 

Girard 

Chicago 

LaSalle 



Boone 

Iroquois 

Cook 

Carrol] 

Cook 

Carroll 

Adams 

McLean 

Crawford 

McLean 

McLean 

LaSalle 

McLean 

Macoupin 

Richland 

Richland 

Cook 

Warren 

Kane 

Edgar 

LaSalle 

McDonough.. 
Washington.. 
McDonough.. 

Will 

Calhoun 

Iroquois 

Gi undy 

Cumberland.. 

Lawrence 

Cook 

Randolph 

Henry 

Wari en 

Kane 

Vermilion 

Brown 

LaSalle 

Livingston.... 

Cook 

Clinton 

Cook 

Cook 

Cook 

Ogle 

DuPage 

Champaign. .. 
Will 

Scott 

Cook 

Knox 

Fayette 

Fayette 

Macoupin 

Cook 

LaSalle 



1880 
1872 
1891 
1882 
1889 

1886 
1856 
1876 
1870 
1878 

1876 
1881 
1884 
186 !• 
1882 

1883 
1881 
1816 
1851 
1881 

1889 
1886 
1886 
1863 
1873 

1875 
1850 
1874 
1887 
1851 

1862 
1889 
1871 
1803 
1891 

1891 
1867 
1867 
1869 
1884 

1891 
1891 
1888 
1889 
1866 

1887 
1805 
1872 
1800 
1875 

1873 
1890 
1867 
1872 
1880 

1871 
18-<2 
1879 
1861 
1883 



D.. 1876 



IOD.R.,1891 
21 D.R., 1891 



G. . 1865 
D.R.,] 

H. D.,1874 
D., 1878 

D.R.,1886 



H.D.,1871 



H.D.,1853 
fl.D.,1865 



D.R.,1892 



D.R.,1864 



16|D.R.,1879 

16 D.R.,1881 
15;H.D.I860 
12 
15 
9 



D.R.,1886 

HiD.'.isse 

H.D.,1871 

D.'R.,'i872 
H.D.,1872 



H.D.,1882 



H.D.1874 




115 



— Continued. 



Deafness. 


Deaf Relatives. 


Consan- 
guinity OF 
Paeents... 


Remarks. 


Cause. 


Age. 




4 weelcs. 








Typhoid fever 


















J^pinal moninfiritis. . 
Fall from high roof 

Spinal meningritis . 
Inflanimati' brain 
Gratln'riDg in head. 
Spinal meningitis. . 


1/2 years 
3 years. . 

2)6 years 














x5r. J meningitis at lb yrs. 










4 mo's.. . 


z isrs . u"^vJ yiJ^.Dt or. uy^jj 








M'd d. m (153) 


B'. 


151. KVJiilit Z orS. [liftio) Ul*loJ 

xsr. KiviiZ) ^ ors. iiy^oJ iiviis; 






Whooping cough . . 










D 










z x>rs. \v^£iSj) uy.iU,or. iiyis^ 






Congestion Drain,, 






ii'dd. m. (1751) 












6 mo s . . . 
2/^ years 

R 


Q*' noocv 






Spinal meningitis.. 
























opinal meningitis . . 




















B 










7 mo s . . . 


















1 year..,. 
B 


T> _ CIQQQV 












T • »^ -1 to'^\ 
































Whooping cough.. 


















opinal meningitis . 










B 










Ti 


u 


Cs... 
























2 years.. 














M'd d. m. (200) 




33^ years 
















Grathering in head. 


3 years.. 
7 weeks. 


































6 mo**^ 








Severe cold 












B 




Cs. .. 


(jrerman, mu u. m. (bo) ..• 
German, m*d d.m. (190) . . 




3^ years 


2d 0 


Gathering in head.. 














M'd. a woman who hears. 








Spinal meningitis . 


3^ years 
B 


















2 Krs. (1065) (1966) 


Cs ,, 








2 Srs. (1964) (1966) 


Cs ,, 








2 Srs. (1964) (1965) 


Os 






B 




2dCs 
2dCs 






B 

























1911 
1912 
I'.IVi 
1914 
1915 

1916 
1917 
1918 
1919 
192U 

3921 
1922 
1923 
1924 
1925 

1926 
1927 
1928 
1929 
1931) 

1931 
1932 
1933 
1934 
1935 

1936 
1937 
1938 
1939 
1940 

1911] 
1942 i 
1913 
1944 
1945 



1947 1 
1948 
1949 1 
1950 



1954 



1957 



19 
1960 



1962 ! 

1963 , 
1964 
1965 

1966 
1967 
1968 
1969 
1970 , 



116 



List of Pupils 



Name. 



postoffice 
Address. 



County of 
Besidence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode or 
Dis- 

CHAEGE. 



OS 



1971 
197^ 
1973 
1974 
197o 

1976 

197 

1978 

197: 

1980 

1981 

1982 

1983 
1984 
1985 



Sullivan, Michael 

Sullivan, Michael K.. 
Sullivan, Thomas A. . 
Sullivan, William — 
Summers, Martha A. 



Sutter, William D 

Swann, Sarah J 

Swangron, Ernest Gotfried.. 

Swanson, Jennie 

Swanson, Victor 



Swart, Emma May . 
Swart, Mabel C 



Sweet, Rosa 

Swenson, John E. 
Swenson, Tilda G. 



198G Swiler, Daniel B.., 

' Talbot, David I 

Tate, Andrew 

Tate, Emma 

Taubman, Amelia., 



Taylor, Alice G.. . 
Taylor, Lyman B . 

Taylor, Hattie 

Taylot . Martha S. 
Tayior, Nelson 



1987 
1988 
1989 
199;> 

1991 
1992 
1993 
1994 
1995 



1996 Taylor, Ory Newton. 

1997 Taylor, Richard E. .. . 

1998 Tegtmeyer, Herman. 

1999|Tef?tmeir, Conrad 

2000 Teitler, Albert W 



2001 Telford, Margaret A.. 

2002 Temple, William 

2003 Templeton, Emilv A. 

2004 Templin, Minnie C . . . 

2005 Tenny, Leslie E 



20(i(i 
^007 
2008 
200) 
2010 

2011 
2012 
2013 
2014 
2015 

2016 
2017 
1018 
2019 
2020 

2021 
2022 
2023 
3024 
20i!5 

2026 
2027 
2028 
2029 
203' 



Theunis, Emily 

Thickston, Henry 

Thirsk, Walter Sidney . . 
Thomas, Agnes Louise. 
Thomas, Annie 



Thomas. Louisa M 

Thomas, Ollie M 

Thoma-, Olive 

Thompson, Elizabeth. 
Thompson, Fannie 



Thompson, James M 

Thompson, John J 

Thompson, Polly P 

rnomp.';on, Wesley Franklin 
Threadgold, Irene Alice.. . 



Tibbitts, Effie Melvina.. 

Tilton, Ernest 

Tilton, William I 

Timmons, Albert 

Timmons, Lena B 



Timms, Tiena 

Tipton, James W.. . 
Tolivor. Catharine. 
Touzaiin. Florence. 
Towles, John T 



Batavia 

Ottawa 

Vandalia 

Belvidere 

Pekin 

Harwood 

Mattoon 

Rockford 

Sycamore 

Aurora 

ChicHgo 

Elwood 

Springfield 

Galesburg 

Monmouth 

St. Louis , 

DuQuoin 

Danville 

Chicago 

Sycamore , 

Bloomington. . 

Noble 

Lovington 

Momence 

Payson 

Charleston 

Chicago 

Jacksonville . . . 

Raccoon 

Chicago 

Momence 

Chicago! 

Johnsonville... 

Chicago 

Flora 

Chicago 

Belleville 

Jaek.sonville . . 
Springerton.. . 
DeKalb Centre 
Chicago 

Blandinsviile. . 

Kewanee 

Waverly 

Augusta 

Lockport 

Mt. Carroll 

Jacksonville... . 

Jerseyville 

Vermont 

Orangeville 

New Boston.. . 

Noble 

Keithsburg 

Bentley 



Kane 

LaSalle 

Fayette 

Boone 

Tazewell 

Champaign . 

Coles 

Winnebago. . 

DeKalb 

Kane 

Cook 

Will 

Sangamon.. . 
Knox 

Warren 

Mo. (state).. . 

Perry 

\'ermilion — 
Cook 

DeKalb 

McLean 

Richland 

Moultrie 

Kankakee .. . 

Adams 

Coles 

Cook 

Morgan 

Marion 

Cook 

Kankakee 

Cook 

Wayne 

Cook 

Clay 

Cook 

St. Clair 

Morgan 

White 

DeKalb 

Cook 

McDonough. 

Henry 

Morgan 

Hancock 

Will 

Carroll 

Morgan 

Jersey 

Fulton 

Stephenson.. 

Mercer 

Richland 

Mercer 

Hancock 



1870 
1879 
1872 
1884 
1852 

1882 
1868 
1889 
1872 
1870 

1883 



1880 
1873 
1862 

1859 
1864 
1890 
1890 
1874 

1879 
1879 
1887 
1871 
1877 

1886 
1875 
1886 
1855 
1869 

1858 
1869 
1884 
1873 
1882 

1870 
1866 
1890 
1887 
1886 

1880 
1876 
1889 
1856 
1854 

1871 
1H74 
1847 
1887 
1888 

1884 
18S2 
1881 
1871 
lS7i 

1885 
1867 
1871 
1864 
1871 



G.. 188: 



D., 1876 
D.R.,1891 
H.D.,1859 

R.S.,1887 
H.D.1869 



D.R.,1881 
D.K.,1881 

R.S.,1887 

R.S..1887 

R. S.,1884 
R.S., 1880 
D.R.,1SG9 

H.D.,1862 
H.D.,1866 



10 



G. . 1885 

D.R.,1881 

H. D.,1890 
D.. 11 
D.R.,1879 
D.R.,1886 



G., 1887 



D.R.,1856 
R.S. 1872 



G., 

G., 

D.R. 
9D.R. 
8 



1867 
1870 
1887 
1891 



G.. 1882 
D.R.,1876 



G., 1882 
D.B.,188^ 



H.D.,1864 
H.D.,1862 

D.R.,1881 
R,S.,1879 
H.D.,18 



D.R..1886 
H.D.,1889 

G. . 1887 

H. D..1882 
D.R..1881 

D.R.,18S7 

G. , 1873 
D.R..1884 

H. D.,1872 
H.D.1882 



— Contiuued. 



117 



1971 
1972 
1973 
1974 
1975 

1976 
1977 
1978 
1979 
1980 

1981 

1982 

1983 
1984 
1985 

1986 
3987 
1988 
1989 
1990 

1991 
1992 
1993 
1994 

1995 

1996 
1997 
1998 
1999 
200O 

200] 
2002 
2003 
2004 
2005 

2006 
2007 
2008 
2009 
2010 

2011 
2012 
2013 
2014 
2015 

2016 
2017 
2018 
2019 
2020 

2021 
2022 
2023 
2024 
2025 

2026 
2027 
2028 
2029 
2030 



Deafness. 


Deaf Helatives. 


CONSAN- 

guinty of 
Parents.., 


Re;,: AiiKS. 


Cause. 


Age. 
























































Q 




















Q 


Cs... 


W TIT Qr \ cx 








Swede: m'd. d. m 










OW t/Ut; , 111 U. (-1. lU. Vl«'Oj .... 
iU-UIIIcI llaXU. Ul IlCctlill^ 111. 

IVI* 'ther hard of hearing in. 
ialultlife 












1 year... 








































M VI rl rrt {9'7l\) 




T> 






M'd a woman who hears 


uoDgesti n 01 DraiD 


























Spinal meningitis.. 










T) 












'■iri n 






Scarlet fever 




















Gathering in bead. 
Spinal nneningitis . 


Infancy . 














23!3 year.- 














German 












Ague anci Quimne. . 






4th C 


TIT 1 1 


B 






opinalmeningitis. , 
Spasms 
















O WcUC , in U . U . Ill . K^O-i). . . ^ 


















Orerman*, met. ci. m. too4).. 
M'd. d. m. (1592) 




o 






Spinal meningitis . 
Brain fever 




















10 years. 




















2 2d Cs 




Canadian; m'd d. m.(1650). 


Spinal meningitis.. 


1^ years 
B 








































M'd d. m. (1779) 




B 






M;'dd.m.(539); 1 d.child(538) 




1^6 years 




























Gr. U. and Br, (2ii23) 


2dCs 
2dCs 




Scarlet fev'r, me'sls 
Measles 




Gr. U. and Br. (2022) 










Thr't and ear dis'se 










B 








Congest'n of brain 
Spinal meningitis.. 


lit years. 






M'd d. m. (118) 






M'd d. m. (898.) 
















1 



-10 D. D. 



118 



List of Pupils 



: « 



Name. 



postoffice 
Address. 



County of 
Besdence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 
Dis- 

CHABGE. 



2031 Towne, Ernest O 

3032 Towner, Elizabetti M. 
^033 Townsend, Albert M.. 



Townsend, Isabella. 
Townsend, Mary. 



Townsend, Sarah J. 
Trabue, Robert H. .. 

Trapp, Fairy 

Trees, Flora B 

Treest, Walter 



2031 
2035 

2036 
■2037 
2038 
2039 
2040 

2041 
2012 
2043 
2044 
2045 

2046 
2047 
2048 
2049 
2050 

2051 
2052 
2053 
2054 
2055 

2050 
2057 
2058 
2059 
2060 



2061 Ulrieh. Bichard 

2 '62 Urquhart, Thomas Alfred. 
2063 Utt, Effle A. 
2064 
2065 



Pekin 

Abingdon 

Chicago = . 

Northville 

Pleasant Plains. 



Mason City, 
Shipman . .. 
Kankakee .. 
Hazel Dell.. 
Aurora 



Treiber, July P 

Treider, Oneida. . . 
Tieman, Adriana.. 
Treneherv. Verdi . 
Triplett, Daniel T. 



Trotter, William T. 
Trotter. Wilson S. . 
Troyer. Arthur H. . 

True, Mary Ann 

Trusdall, Nancy 



Alton 

Chicago 

Aurora 

A.lton 

Petersburg. 

Montioello.. 



A.nawan 

Greensburg. 
Exeter 



Tunze, Minnie 

Turnbau h, William. 

Turner, Albertis 

Turner, Cordelia 

Turner, James 



Columbia. 
Pittsfield . 
Kilbourn.. 
Quincy.. .. 
Perry 



Turner, William 

Tui-nmeyer, Nancy Ollie. 

Tuttle, Jacob E 

Ull, Herman William 

Ulmer, Grin G 



2006 
2067 
2068 
2069 
2070 

2071 
2072 
2073 
2074 
2075 

2070 
2077 

2078 
21179 
2080 

2081 
2082 
2083 
2084 
2085 

2086 
2087 
2n88 
2089 
2090 



Vail, Herbert O .... 
Valentine, George. 



Vance, Charles E 

Vance. Elmer 

Van Cleave. Nancy J. 
Vandergrift, Emily. ., 
Van Doren. Phoebe. . , 



Chicago 

Bloomington. 
Pecatonica . . . 
Edwardsville. 
Cameron 



Joliet 

Carlinville 

Virden 

Momence 

Bloomington. 



Paris 

Joy 

Jacksonville., 

Athens 

Ottawa 



Vandyke, Milton 

Van Vieet. Benjamin P. 

Varner. Andr(?w C 

Vasel, Frederick 

Vaughan, Leslie H 



Vaughn. Emily W. 
Vaughn, William.. 



Venables, Emily .. 
Vencill, Harriet E. 
Venters, Alfred . .. 



Verity, John W 

Vermillion, Martha L. 
Verneuil, Benjamin D . 

Veitch, Bachel A 

Vezensky, Anton 



Vinecore, Frederick J 

Vise, Gustaviis A 

Voegele, Charles Joseph. 

Peter 

Volk, Matthias 



Macomb 

Lawrinceville. 

Monticello 

Harvel 

Sullivan 



Old Bipley. 
ilton 



Logansburg. 

Say brook 

Fairfield 



Chicago 

Salem 

Collinsvllle .. 
Jacksonville , 
Chicago 



Tazewell 

Knox 

Cook 

LaSalle 

Sangamon 



Ma'ion 

Macoupin — 

Kankakee 

Cumberland . 
Kane 



1880 
1881 
1873 
1863 
1853 

1866 
1874 
1882 
1882 
1874 



Madison 1890 

Cook 'I88.t 



Kane. 
Madison.. 
Menard . . 



Piatt. 



Henry 

Iowa (State). 
Scott 



Monroe. 
Pike .... 
Mason . . 
Adams . . 
Pike . . . . 



Cook 

McLean 

Winni^bago. 

Madison 

Warren 



Will 

Macoupin 

Kankakee , 
McLe in. .. 



Edgar . . . 
Mercer.. 
Morgan . 
Menard . 
LaSalle . 



MoDonough.. 
Lawrence — 

Piatt 

Montgomery. 
Moultrie 



Bond . ... 
Madison., 

Wabash , 
McLean.. 
Wayne... 



Cook 

Ma ion , . 
Maiison. 
Morgan. . 
Cook 



New Rutland. .. 
McLeansboro .. 

Highland 

West Belleville 
Newton 



'Hamilton.. 
'Madison .. 
St. Clair... 
Jasper 



1861 
1887 
1883 

1870 
187(1 
1877 
1818 
1851 

1880 
1875 
1884 
1850 
1879 

1885 
1887 
1867 
1884 
1878 

1878 
1889 
1870 
1860 
1882 

1862 
1888 
1847 

1864 1 
1850 

1850 
1862 
1880 
18'il 
1890 

1877 
1847 

187.'? 
188:i 
1882 

1872 
1883 
1878 
1850 
1886 

1858 
1858 
1888 
1874 
1889 



G. , 1892 
R.S.,1884 
D.R.,1876 

H. I ).,1874 
D.R.,1860 

G . 1878 
D.R., 1870 
D.R.,1889 
D.R.,1«8G 
D.B.,1884 



H.D..18(i8 



D.K.,1891 

R.S,,1879 
D.R ,1876 
B.S.,1882 
H.D.,185l 
D.. 1852 

DR., 1891 
D.B.,1886 



H.D„1853 
Ex., 1892 

D.R., 1887 



H.D.,187ii 
D.B.,1886 



H.D.,1881 
H.D.,1872 
D.R.,1891 

H.D.,1869 
D.R.,1891 
H.D.,1855 
H.D.,1869 
H.D..1859 

H.D.,1852 
D.R.,1870 



D.B.,189l 
H.D..1849 

D R ,1887 
G., 1892 



D.R.,1886 
R. S.,1886 
D.R.,1881 
G., 1860 



1865 
1860 



G., 1885 
D.R.,18:)2 



— Continued. 



119 



Deafness. 



Age. 



Deaf Relatives. 



'TO? 
y w Z 

■ft' 



Remarks. 



Spinal meninKitis. . 
Fall; chills aud fev'r 



Sore ears 

Whooping cough.. . 



Spinal meningitis.. 

Gathering in head. 
Brain fever 



•2031 
2032 
2033 
2034 
2035 

203 i 
2037 
20.38 
2039 
2040 

2041 1 
2042, 
i'043; 
2044, 
2045 

204fii 
2047 
2048 
204!) 
2050 

2051 
2052 
2053 
2054 
2055 



2o.")fi Paralysis .. . 
!057 Scarlet fever 



Id mo's.. 
2 years.. 

B 

6 mo's. .. 

years 

B 



16 mo's. 



Lung fever 

Scarlet f'jver 

Mumps 

Spinal meningitis., 
Spinal fever 



Spinal meningitis. 
Fever 



1 year. .. 

3 years.. 

4 years.. 

5 years., 
•ij^ years 
1 year.... 



1 year. .. 

B 

B 



Spinal meningitis . 

iiiphtheria 

Measles 



Sickness. 
Spinal meningitis. 
Cold 



Brain fever 



2058 
2059 
2060 

2061 
2062 
2063 
2061 
2065 



2066 Whooping cough. 

20671 Scarlet fever 

2068 Fever 

2m 

2070 Spasms 



Measles & ch. rheu 



2071 
2072 
2073 
2074 
2075 

2076 
2077 

2078 
2079 
2080 

2081 
2082 
208S 
2081 



Fever 

Spin il meningitis 
Intlammation of ear 
Diphtheria 



Cold 

Spinal meningitis. 
Spinal meningitis. 
Sickness 



Congesti'n of spine 

Gradual loss 

Scarlet fever 



Fever 

Pneumonia. 



2086 ■ 
; 20S7 : 

2089, Fall in water .. 
2090 Typhoid lever 



1 3d C. (429). 



Fr. and Mr. 



Sr. (2036). 
Sr. (2035). 



3dCs 



Br. (2017). 
Br. (2046). 



4 years. 

15 mo's. 

B 

3 years. 

B 

3 mo's. . 



4 years. 
2 years. 
4 mo's.. 

years. 
2 years. 

8 years. 

B 

B 

1>6 years 



U. and N. 



10 mo's. 
4 years. 



B 

17 mo's. 



B 

7 mo's. 



1 year... 

2 years. 



3 years. 

2 years. 

years 
6 mo's 



G. U 

Fr. (2077) Mr. (2216) 



18 mo's. 

B 

2 years. 

B 

5 years. 

273 years 



B 

11 mo's. 
2 years. 



M'd d. m. (837) 

M'd a man who hears. 



Os... 



M'd d. m. (130). 



German. 



M'd d. m. (174); died 1887.. 



German 

M'd d. m. (21.39)., 



M'd d. m. 



M'd d. m.. 
German . 



German 

English 

MM d. m. (637) 

M'd a woman not deaf. 



M'd d. m. (738). 

Mexican 

M'd d. m 



German 



M'd d. m. (473), 2d (2216), 1 

deaf child (2o76) 

M'd a man not deaf 



English. 



French 

Became teacher in III. Inst. 
Bohemian 



German 
Germ n 



120 



List of Pupils 




postoffce 
Address. 



County or 
Residence. 



1 Ad- 

IMITTED 



Mode OF 

Dis- 
chakge. 



20i)l|Waddell. Nanov P. .. 
2n!i2 Warner, Henrv , 

2093 Wagner. Katherine , 

2094 Waldo, Mary T 



2095 Walker, Andrew J 



Asliland .. . 
Chicago . . . 
Alexander. 
Osceola 



Carlyle. 



2096 
2097 
2098 
2099 
2100 

2101 

2102 
2103 
2104 
2105 



Walker. James W. . 

Walker, Lanty 

Walker, Mary J 

Walker, Mary Lida 
Wallace, Eugenia . . 



Wallace. Gazeal 

Wallbaum, Ailolph.. 
Wallentin, Bertha E 
^ValI^ck, Ellen Jane . 
Walter, Alphonse . .. 



2106 Walters. John M 

2107 Walsh. E^iwinD 

2108 Waters, Charles 

2109 Watson. Geo ge Leonard. 

2110 Ward, James W 



Dakota 

West Union 

Flora 

Mapleton 

Petersburg . 

Mt. Vercon . 

Chicago 

Emden 

Canton 

Chicago 



Areola .. . 
Mattoon . 
Bourbon. 
Foster .. . 
Bell Air. . 



2111 Ward, Marv E.. 
2112|Ward. Nancy A. 
2113 Warf, Rosetta... 



Waterman. Laura B. 
Watkins, Mary E 



2114 
2115 

2116 
2117 
2118 
2119 

2120 Waugh. Alfred K. 



Watrous, Herbert G. 

Watson, James K 

Watson, Margaret 

Watt, Alice. 



2121 
2122 
2123 
2124 
2125 



Waugh, William 

Wear, John 

Weaver, Ida 

Webb, Charles A 

Webb, Edgar Daniel. 



2126 Webb, Gertrude M. 



2127 
2128 
2129 
2130 

2131 
2132 
2133 
2134 
213o 

2136 
2137 
2138 
2139 
2140 

2141 
2142 



2143 
2144 
2145 



Webb, William . 
Wedekind, Predei-ick. 

Weeding, Louis E 

Weeks, Clarissa A 



Weese, Jasper L.. 
Weese. Nancy J.. 
Weis, Bernhart . .. 

Weis, Samuel 

Welch, Benjamin . 



Welch, John T... 
Welch, Margaret. 

Welch, Maria 

Welch, Mary 

Welch, William .. 



WelUngton, Sophronia. 
Wells, Anna E 



Wells, Etta Grace.... 
Wentworth, Flora P. 
Wertz, James N 



Carbondale. 

Bell Air 

Hillsboro,... 



Urbana . 
Lenox .. 



Mapleton 

Chicago 

Berwick 

New Douglas 
Evanston 



Hennepin .. , 

Quincy 

Seville 

Santa Anna 
Hermosa 



CarroUton... . 
Central City. 
Chicago 



Staunton . 
Summum. 
Chicago .. 
Belleville.. 



Pontoosuc. 

Ottawa 

Pontoosuc. 
Pittsfleld . . . 
Carbondale 



Wapella 

White Hall , 



Murrayville... 
Warrensburg 
Sullivan 



Cass 

Cook 

Morgan 

Mis.-i'uri(state) 

CUnton 



Stephenson... 

Clark 

Clay 

Peoria 

Menard 



Jefferson . 

Cook 

Logan 

Fulton.. .. 
Cook 



Douglas 

Coles 

Douglas 

Rook Island.. 
Crawford 



Jackson 

Crawford 

Montgomery.. 

Champaig.i .. 
MeLean 



Peoria ... 

Cook 

Warren .. 
Madison . 
Cook 



Putnam. 
Adams. . 
Pulton .. 
DeWitt . 
Knox . . . 



Greene 

Col. (State) 
Cook 



Macoupin . 

Fulton 

Cook...".'.'.'] 
St. Ciair!!! 



Hancock.. 
LaSalle... 
Hancock, 

Pike 

Jackson . 

DeWitt .. 
Greene . . 



Morgan. . 

Macon 

Moulti ie , 



1878 
1880 
1880 
1849 

1849 

18.58 
1878 
1879 
1890 
1881 

1878 
1882 
188G 
1888 
1885 

1876 
1873 
1889 
1890 
1867 

1884 
1870 
1886 

1853 
1862 

1890 
1865 
1860 
1876 
1881 

1863 
1876 
1875 
1855 
1887 

1888 
1871 
1874 
1876 
1877 

1881 
1879 
1885 
1885 
1856 

1847 
1874 
1847 
1865 
1850 

1849 
1863 



1888 
1881 
1875 



19 



D., 1882 
D.R. 1889 
D.R.,1886 

G. , 1855 

H. D.,1854 

G., 18C(i 
D.R..1891 
D.R.,1889 



D.R.,1889 

D.R.,1886 
D.R.,1891 



D.R.,1879 
G., 1886 



D.R. 1879 



D.R..1888 
D.R..1881 



H.D.1858 
D., 1864 



D.R. IS?.-; 
H.D.1869 
H.D,1 

R.S,,1883 

H.D.,18fi9 
D.R.,1879 
G., 1886 
G., 1866 



H.D. 

D.R., 
D.R., 

G. , 

D.R., 
D.R., 
R.S.: 
R.S. 
D.R., 

D.R. 
D.R. 

H. D. 
D.R. 
D.R. 

H.D. 
G . 



,1874 
1882 
1879 
1885 

1884 
1886 
1887 
1887 
1867 

1852 
1886 
,1855 
1869 

,1855 

,1853 
1865 



D.R.,1891 
D.R.,188ti 
D.R.,!"- 



— Continued. 



121 



■2091 
2092 
2093 
2094 

2095 

2090 
2097 
2098 
2099 
2100 

2101 
2102 
2103 
2104 
2105 

2106 
2107 
2108 
2109 
2110 

2111 
2112 
2113 

2114 
2115 

2il6 
2117 
2118 
2ll!l 
2120 

2121 
2122 
2123 
2124 
2125 



Whooping cough . 



Typhoid fever . ... 
Spinal meningitis 
Pever 



Deafness. 



Cause. 



Age. 



Spinal meningitis. 



Measles 

Scarlet fever . 



Spinal meningitis. 
Whooping cough . 



Unknown 
Sickness . 



Typhoid fever 



Catarrh. 
Quinine. 



Spinal meningitis.. 

Scarlet fever 

Whooping cough & 
Spinal meningitis.. 
Whooping cough. . . 



Spinal meningitis. 

Pall 

Brain fever 

Spinal meningitis. 



2 years.. 

2J3 years 

20 years. 
2 years.. 



5 mo's. 



B 

4 years. 



4 years. 
10 mo's. 

B 

6 mo's. . 
3 years. 

1 year. . 
9 mo's . . 



2!6 years 
2 years.. 
0 mo's. .. 



8 years. 
4 years. 
3 years. 
14 mo's. 
2 years. 



Deaf Relatives. 



(► C 12 

CD O 

: hi 



Remaek-. 



Sr. (2112); 2 Os. (877) (878). 



2nd C 

Br. (2110); 2 Cs. (877) (878). 



German 

German 

M'd d. m. (1181): became a 
teacher in III. Institute.. 
M'd. d, m. (1721) 

M'd d. m. (154) 



German 
German 



German 

M'd d. m. (1C40) 

Irish 

English 



English; md. d. m. (824). 
M'd d. m. (59) 



Spinal meningitis. 

Nervous fever 

Measles 



2!'6 years 
2 years. 



212c Scarlet fever. 



2127 
2128 
2129 
2130 

2131 
2132 
2133 
2134 
2135 

2136 
2137 
2138 
2139 
2140 

2141 
2142 



2143 
2144 
21^5 



Spasms., 



4 years. 
10 mo's. 
B....... 



Spinal meningitis. 



Brain fever. 



12 years. 



B 

4 mo's. 

B 

B 



2 Srs. (2132) 

1 Br. (2131), 1 Sr. 

Br. (2134) 

Br. (2133) 



Sr. (2138). 



Br.,- (2136). 



M'd d. m., 



M'd d. m. (607). 



English. 



German 

Colored 

M'd a man v^ho hears . 

Killed on B. R 



Hungarian 
Hungarian 
German 



Irish.. 



Md. d. m. (2052). 



Whooping cough. 
Gradual decay 



4 mo's. 



Gradual decay 

Gathering in head. 
Spinal meningitis. 



Br. and niece . 
Pr., A. and U. 



M'd d. m. (.'^24). Mother's 
hearing defective in ad- 
vanced life 



Killed on railroad. 



122 



List at Pupils 



Name. 



PoSTOFriCE 

Addbess. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 

Dis- 
charge. 



2146 
2147 
1148 
2149 
2150 

2151 

215i! 
2153 
3154 
2155 

2156 
2157 
2158 
2159 
2160 

2161 
2162 
2163 
2164 
21G5 

2166 
2167 
2168 
2169 
2170 

2171 

2172 
2173 
2174 
2175 

2176 
2177 
2178 
2U9 
2180 

2181 
2182 
2183 
2184 
2185 

2186 
2187 
2188 
2189 
2190 

2191 
2192 
2193 
2194 
2195 

2196 
2197 
2198 
2199 
2200 



Wess, Charles 

Wessel, Emma 

West, John H 

Westfield, Henry C. 
Weston, William 



Wetstein, Charles ... 

Wetzler, Joseph 

Whalen, Josephine.. 
Wheatley, LeroiN... 
Wheeler, Frances J. 



Wheeler, Mamie 

Whipple, Madge M. 

White, Alice J 

White, Annie A 

White, Henry L 



Whi e, John 

White, John L 

White, S .muel M 

White, Sarah Elizabeth. 
Whiiloclce, George B.... 



Whitney, Mary D 

Whitney, Squire 

Whitset, James A 

Wicl^ner, Emma 

Wicks, Golden Frances. 



Wicktom, Annie. 



Wiokoff, Emily G... 
Wilber, Roy Smith. 

Wilcox, Cora L 

Wilcox, Jay T 



Wildhaber, Joseph C. 

Wiley. Elmer E 

Willielm, Adela.. 

Willielm, Louis 

Willielms, Mary W 



Willi, Emma 

Williams, (-feorge W. 
Williams, Harriet.... 

Williams, Luella 

Williams, Margaret. . 



Williams, Perry E .. 
Williams, Robert R. 
Williams, William. .. 
Williams, William J 
Willis, Frank A 



Willis, Sarah Jane .. 
Wilson, Abraham L. 

Wilson, Clara E 

Wilson, Harriet 

Wilson, Herbert C. 



Wilson, Hiram 

Wilson, Lewis C 

Wilson, Lottie H... 

Wilson, Mary A 

Wilson, Lida Mary. 



2201 Wilson, Nancy C... 

2202 Wilson, Walter 

2203|WilS(in. William 

2204 Winders. Elizabeth. 
22051 Winders, Wesley ... 



Belleville 

Bloomington. 

Walshville 

Rock Island. . 
Waterloo 



Peoria 

Peru 

Chicago 

DuQuoin 

Cary Station. 



Putnam. 
Chicago 



West Union . 
Chicago 



Marshall .. 
Chicago .. 
Lafayette. 
Chicago .. 
Pana 



Webb'e Prairie 



8 hool PostofQoe , 

Irving 

Ottawa 



Kewanee., 



Marva 

Courtland. 
Belvidere. 



Highland . . 
Evansville. 
Chicago — 
Belleville . . 
Red Bud... 



Lebanon 

Hazel Dell.. 
Port Byron 

Shannon 

Morris , 



alva 

Morrison.... 

Lebanon 

Mt. Vernon.. 
Salisbury. .. 



Shawneetown. 

Jevcett 

Monmouth 

Wapella 

Springflold 



Wapella 

Beardstovyn . 

Belleville 

Mt. Sterling. 
Columbia 



allula. . 
Medora . 
Chicago 
Barry ... 
Barry 



St. Clair 

McLean 

Montgomery.. 
Rock Island.. 
Monroe 



1877 

1878 
1861' 
1867 
1862 



Peoria 1876 

LaSalle 1886 

Cook 

Perry 

McHenry 



Putnam. 
Cook.... 



1871 
1862 
1862 



Clark. 
Cook. 



Clark 

Cook 

8tark 

Cook 

Christian . 



Franklin. 



White 

Montgomery. 
LaSalle 



Henry... 

Macon... 
DeKalb . 
Boone... 



1886 
1890 
1876 
1880 
1877 

1864 
18 
1847 
1891 



1871 
1871 
1879 
1879 
18j7 

1875 

1867 
1890 
1880 
1880 



Madison 1857 

Randolph 1875 

Cook 1891 

St. Ciair. 
Randolph 



St. Clair 

Cumberland 
Rock Island. 

Carr oil 

Grundy 



Henry 

Whiteside 

St. Clair 

Jefferson 

Sangamon... 

Gallatin il886 



1884 



1881 
1883 
1878 
1882 
1868 

1886 
1881 
1876 
1880 
1880 



Cumberlan.l . 
Warren. .. 
DeWiit ... 
Sangamon 



DeWitt . . 

Cass 

St. Clair. 
Brown . . . 
Monroe... 



Menard.... 
Macoupin 

Cook 

Pike 

Pike 



1877 
1875 
1853 
1890 

1855 
1873 
1889 
1847 
188U 

1877 
1886 
1880 
1873 
1870 



9 H.D.1889 


10 


irD.R.,1891 


v> 


1 1 


n. u. , Jo')/ 


7 


1 1 
1 1 


U. SX. , lolO 


,5 


12 


H.D.,I867 


6 


8 


D.R..1886 


9' 


10 




6 


(1 


T» T? 1Q7n 


7 


1'^ 

10 


/■i 1W7'> 


10 




xl . JJ - , LfiOO 


4 


10 






J./ 




I 


i(t 

H' 


U . SX. lOo'l 


7 


1 J 




1 


1 1 
11 


n "R iftaf\ 


7 


13 


H.D.,1866 


2 


1 1 


U.XX., looo 


f) 


1 u 


£l.U . lOOo 


t> 


io 




1 




n 1 coo 




19 


D.R.,1872 




17 


HI? 1 Q'70 

U.l\. , lo/i 




17 
J i 


XJ.SX., lOOi 


3 


Q 

y 


JL/.Xlr., loVi 


10 


10 






14 


G.. 1880 




10 


U. it. loby 


2 


10 


u. i\., loy I 


1 


18 


|~~» Ti igOi: 

U.ii.f loou 


6- 


10 


G., 1892 




11 


rl.U..loo7 


Q 


12 


JL>. it, looo 


6 


7 




1 


8 






14 






1 1 








D.li., 18H6 


2 


13 


K. S., 1879 


2 


9 




10 


10 


G., 1879 


7 


10 




g 


12 


R.S.,1882 


1 


11 


D.R..1884 


5 


11 






10 


D.R. 1891 


7 






5 


12 


H. D..I886 


9 


13 


D, 1886 


10 


15 


D., 1857 


4 


7 




1 


26 


H.D.,1856 


1 


15 


D.R.,1881 


a 


8 




3 


10 


H,D.,1882 


6 


9 


G., 1892 


U 


10 


H.D. 1888 


10 


9 




6 


10 




9 


10 


b.R.,i88i 


ft 


12 


D.R.. 18761 


5 



—Continued. 



123 



Deafness. 



Cause. 



Age. 



Deaf Relatives. 



W M ^ 

y M (» 



Remarks. 



2146 
2147 
2148 
2149 
215U 

2151 
2152 
2153 



Spinal menineitis . 
Exposure to heat.. 
Brain fever 



7 years, 
t) mo's.. 
3 years. 

B 

B 



Br. 



Spinal meningitis .| 

Spinal meningitis.. 3 years. 



2154 Brain fever 

2155 Congestion of brain 



215G 
2157 
2158 
2159 

2it;o 

2101 
2 1 02 
2103 
2104 
2105 

2160 
2107 
2108 
.'109 



3 years. 
7 years. 



C. (4i)0). 



Catarrh 2 years. 

Spinal meningitis . 2 years. 
Inflamafn of brain. i4 years. 

Omo's.. 



German 
German 



German. 
German. 



M'd d. m 

German 

Irish 

Md. d. m 

M'd d. m. (389). 



Irish., 



Brain fever. . 
Scarlet fever , 



4 years. 



Spinal meningitis. 



3^! years 
13 years 



M'd d. m. (573). 



2170 Mea^ les 



2171 

2172 
2173 
2174 
2175 

2176 
2177 
2178 
2179 
2180 



Scrofula ;2 years., 

Spinal meningitis.. 2 years.. 



Br. (2107). 
Sr. '2100). 
Br 



Spinal meningitis . 



Lung fever. 
Unknown... 



Nervous fever. 
Sicliness 



Spinal meningitis. . 
Spinal meningitis.. 



218l!SpinaI meningitis . 

2182 Spinal men n.critis . 

2183 Spinal meningitis.. 

2184 Scarlet fever 

2185 Cold 



15 mo's. 



2186 Struck hy windlass!2 years. 
21H7 Cold 7 years. 



German 



12 years. 
2 mo's.. , 



M'd d. m. Became a teach- 
er in Missouri Inst 



Br. (2175). 
Sr. (2174)... 



2 years.. 

3 mo's. . . 

B 

3}^ years 

4 years. . 



German 



2 years. 
2 years. 
6 years. 



Cs. 



German 

German 

German 
German , 



Cs. 



2188 Scarlet fever 

2)89 

2190 Spinal meningitis 



2191 
2192 
2193 
2194 
2195 

2190 
2197 
2198 
2199 



18 mo's. 



2 years. 



Scarlet fever. 



B 

B 

3}^ year.- 



C (2190) 



Scarlet fever 

Typhoid fever 

Spinal meningitis . . 
Inflammation brain 



2200 Spinal meningitis 



2201 
2202 
2203 
2204 
2205 



Spinal meningitis, 
pinal lever 



11 years, 
7 years.. 
2 years.. 
5 years.. 
18 mo's.. 



C (2104). 



11 mo's. 
2 years. 



Br. (2205). 
Sr. (2204). 



121 



List of Pu})ils 



Name. 



tostofflce 
Addkess. 



County of 
Kesiuence. 



Ad- 

mitted!Modeof 
Dis- 



- H 



3205 
a207 
2208 
22')9 

2210 

2211 
2212 
2213 
221 4 
a2l5 

2216 
3217 
2218 
2219 
2220 

2221 
2222 
2223 
2221 
2225 

222r, 
2227 
2228 
22i9 
2230 



Winter. Charles 

Winter, George H 

Wise, George C 

Wiseman, David F . 

Wolforth, Fred 



Wolforth, John Lewis. 

Wolf, Benjamin 

Wolf, Charles 

Wolf, Charles F 

Wolf, David 



Wolf, Mary 

Wolfe, iMaude.. .. 

Wolff, Adam 

Wood, Frank J . 
Wood, Martha J. 



Wood, Nellie 

Wooden, Martha 

Woodrow, .James A. 

Wooley, John E 

Woolsey, Clara 



Worberg, John.. 
Worthen, Frenk 
Wray, Georgia . . 
Wren, George. .. 
Wright, Alice 



2231 Wright, Eliza .. 

2232 Wright, Eliza J 



2233 
2231 
2235 

2236 
2237 
2238 
2239 



Wright, Mary A 

Wright, William J . 
Wright, William P. 



Wrus, Anna 

Wuersch, Peter. 
Wyllie. Janet.. . 
Yates, Spencer. 



2210 Young, George W 



2211|Young, Michael A 

2212 Youngberg, Charles 

2213 Youngberg, Frederick A., 
22U Yo'ingberg, Nellie Ada'... 
2215 Younghein, Catharine 



2246 Zanzon, Charles H . . . . 

2247 Zeigler, Douglas 

2248 Zerovitch, Harry 

2249'Zimmerman, Ellen 

2250 Zimmerman, Ida W ... 

225 1 ! Zollinger, Ruth 

22.52' Zollinger, William A... 

2253 Zumberiski, Matthias 

2254 Zook. William A 

2255 Scholz, Fred 



P lano 

Hutsonville 

Marion 

Decatur 

Laeon 

White Hall 

Ripley 

Rockford , 

Edwards ville 

Rock Run 

Ripley 

Olney 

Tremont 

Chicago 

Wyanet 

Chicago 

Urbana 

Green Valley 

Hendersonville .. , 
Auburn 

Aurora 

Lanark 

Unarga 

Jubilee Township 
Jacksonville 

Keithsburg 

Wilmington 

Batavia 

Wilmington 

Lockport 

Chicago 

Madonnaville 

Sparta 

Ursa 

Taylorvillo 

Monticello 

Alton 

Liberty.I 

Chicago 

Rushville 

Chicago 

Pittsfleld 

Harvel 

Polo 

Polo 

Chicago 

Robinson 

Chicago 



Kendall 

C i-awf ord 

Williamson. . 
Macon 

Mar.4hall 

Greene 

Bond 

Winnebago . 

Madison 

Stephenson . 

Bond 

Richland 

Tazewell 

Cook 

Bureau 

Cook 

Champaign . 
Tazewell . .. . 

Knox 

Sangamon. . . 

Kane. 

Carroll 

[roauois 

Peoria 

.Morgan 

Mercer 

Will 

Kane 

Will 

Cook 

Monroe 

Randolph 

Adams 

Christian 

Piatt 

Madison 

Adams 

Cook 

Schuyler 

Cook 

Pike 

Montgomery. 

Ogle 

Cook!;;;"'.'.'. 

Crawford 

Cook 



1890 
1863 
1875 
1857 

1881 

1891 
1857 
187! 
1878 
1876 

1857 
1881 
1872 
1883 
1868 

1890 
1878 
1882 
1870 
1879 

1870 
1873 
1881 
1880 
1881 

1857 
1857 
1806 
1856 
1864 

1876 
1885 
1850 
1891 
1861 

1880 
1888 
1885 
189^) 
1871 

1869 
1876 
18S2 
1891 
1882 

1889 
1880 
1875 
1884 
1S88 



H.D.,1872 
D.R..1881 
D.U.,1858 

D.R.,1886 



13 

2llD.R.18fjO 
10 G. 1861 
7 D.R..189I 
12 U.R.,188S 

1 

19;H.D.1860 
]7|G.. 1886 
1o!D.R.,188J 
liilD.R ,1887 
16 H.D.1873 



U 

10 H.D 
11 

9 D.R.,1879 
9 G , 1890 



.1892 



11 D.n.,1881 
ll'D.R.,1884 
12 

12 D.R ,1889 
12iD.R.,1889 



l(i D.R.,18-.8! 1 

14 H.I).,lS(i0' 3 

12 H.D. ,1868 1 

18 H n.,i8.".8 1 

11:D.R.,1868 3 



ll'D.R.,1886' 

Hi 

12 D., 1853 
21 

11 H.D. ,1875 



14 B.S.,1887 



7 .... 

7 .... 
lOD., 



1877 



18 H.D. .1872 
18 D.R., 1881 
r2lR.S.,lS8i 
...!D.R.,1892 

«! 

10 

10 D R..18Xfi 
13'DR,I891 
22' D.R.. 1892 



125 



— Continued. 



Numb 


Deafness. 


Deaf Relatives. 


C 2 

W M Z 


Remarks. 


H 
Bl 


Cause. 


Age. 


"Ml 




2206 












22117 












2208 












2209 


Washing in cold 




















2210 












2211 


Remitting fever .... 


3 years.. 
B 


"Ci.. Tjl.. TT 






2212 








2213 




B 




Cs... 




2214 


Spinal meningitis . . 








2215 










2216 






T> u /om n\ 




Md d. m. (2077); 1 d. child. 


2217 


Tvnhoirl fever 








2218 Braia fever 










2219, Gathering in head. 
2220j 


2 years.. 
2 years . . 
























2222 












2223 


Spinal meningitis . 










222 J 


Inflammation brain 










222i 










2226 


Spinal meningitis.. 


2 years.. 

2J6 years 
2!4 years 
254 years 
B 








2227 








2228 










2229 


Scarlet fever 








2230 










2231 












2232 












2233 












2234 












2235 


Quinine 










2236 












2237!Hemo'r'ere of m'ufh 


2% years 








2238 










2239 












2210 




B 








2241 












2242 




B 








2243 




B 


Br. (2212), Sr. (2244) 






2244 




B 


2 Brs. (2242J, (2243)' 






2245 


Spinal meningitis . 










2246 










2217 


S pinal meningitis . . 


14 years. 








2218 








2249 












2250 


Spinal meningitis.. 










2251 












2252 


Cold 


10 mo's.. 








2253 


Brain fever 








Pole 


2254 


S pinal meningitis . . 


2J6 years 








2255 





















ADDENDA 

List of Pupils— 



Name. 



postoffice 
Addeess. 



County of 
Residence. 



Ad- 
mitted 



Mode of 

Dis- 
charge. 



2256 
22.57 
2258 
2259 
2260 

2261 
2262 
2263 
2264 
2265 



Abrams. Etta May 

Alexander, Matthew Wilcher. 

Anders, Carrie 

Benters, Charlotte 

Beh, Alma Eva 



Bryson, Dona May . . 
Clinnin, Leo John . . 
iJololough. Carrie B 

Cohoon. Frank 

Cope, Orville A 



Fraters, Ida 
Freeman, John Martin 
Fittkau, Frank Max 



Gabrielson, Frank Arthiir. 

Gellner, August 

Haffner, Frank 

Harper, Arthur 

Hayden. Eomantha A 



Heber, Edward W 

Hester, Mildred 

Howard. Early Theodore . . 

Ingles, James Alma 

Kerins, Patrick 



Kimmel, Edwin F 

Leach Loren 

Lewis, Minnie May . 

Mathis, Hardy Charles. 
McClanahan, Leatha 



2266 Dames, Charles Albert. 

2267 Favorite. Guy W. 

2268 " 
2269 
2270 

2271 

2272 
2273 
2274 
2275 

2276 
2277 
2278 
2279 
2280 

2281 
2282 
2283 
2284 
2285 

2286 
2287 
2288 
2289 
2290 

2291 

2292 
2293 
2294 
2295 

2296 
22J7 
2298 
2299 
2300 

2301 
2302 
2303 
2304 
2305 

2306 
2307 
2308 
2309 
2310 
2311 



Nessel, Maria Ann. 

Norton, Kate 

Obermiller, Emilie. 
Olson, Lise Marie. . 
Pannell, Roy 



Popelka, Barbara 

Powell. George Thomas. 

Rasmussen, Lillian 

Reagan, Anna M 

Reeh, John 



Reil, Mary 

Rich, Ida May 

Robison, Willard 

Ryan, John Ambrose. 
Sampson. Henry J 



Steinmetz, Christina 

Sexton. Martin 

Sulackowski, Kostak 

.schutz, Minnie Christina. 
Tito, Christina 



Walterspeil. Bertha. 

Weese, Maude 

Wilfong, Madison... 

Wilson, Oscar 

Young, Annie 

Zwahlen, Isaac 



Hillsboro 

Sunbeam 

Junction City. 
Chicago 



Jacksonville.. . 

Gilbert 

East St. Louis 

Charleston 

Jerseyville 



Joliet . .. 
Dunlap . 
Chicago 



Orion 

Merrimack Point . 

Carlinville 

Chicago 

Mound City 



Belleville 

America 

Aiken 

Smithboro 

East St. Louis. 



Elmhurst 

Mt. Carmel... 
Mt. Sterling. 
Metropolis . . 
Heirick. . . . 



Chicago 

North Alton. 
Mt. Pulaski. . 

Chicago 

Fulton 



Chicago . 
O'Fallon . 
Chicago . 
Fulton .. . 
Elgin . ... 



Chicago — 
Waukegan . 
Stonington . 
Petersburg. 
Chicago — 



Chicago .. 
Orleans. .. 
Chicago .. 

Elgin 

Chicago .. 

Belleville . 
Summum. 

Noble 

luka 

Chicago .. 
lola 



Montgomery. 

Mereer 

Gallatin 

Cook 



Morgan. 

Kane 

St. Clair 
Coles .... 
Jersey... 



Will .... 
Peoria.. 
Cook... 



Henry 

Monroe 

Macoupin... 

Cook 

Pulaski 



St. Clair . 
Pulaski .. 
Franklin . 

Bond 

St. Clair . 



DuPage 1892 

Wabash 1892 



Brown . 
Massac 
Shelby., 



Cook 

Madison 

Logan 

Cook 

Whiteside... 



Cook 

St. Clair ... 

Cook 

Whiteside.. 
Kane 



Cook 

Lake 

Christian.. 
Menard.... 
Cook 



Cook.... 
Morgan.. 
Cook.... 

Kane 

Cook.... 



St. Clair . 
Fulton.... 
Richland.. 
Marion . . 

Cook 

Clay .... 



1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 

1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 

1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 

1892 
1892 
1892, 
1892 
1892 

1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 



1892 
1893 
1892 

1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 

1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 

1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 

1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 

1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 
1892 



FEBRUARY, 1893. 
Concluded. 



Deafness. 


UEA.F xvELATIVES. 


H Hi ? 

"o 


KEMARKS. 


Oause. 


Age. 














years 

B 

4% years 
14 years. 
















Spinal meningitis.. 














• 








Spinal meningitis . . 




















1!2 years 
lis years 


































Spinal meningitis . . 








Hebrew 








English 




lii years 
U6 years 
















Congestive chill 

Fall 














Austrian 


Typhoid fever 










Chills and quinine. 
Diphtheria, sc'rlt f r 










12 years. 
















B 


















Spinal meningitis . . 










B 








Brain fever 










Scarlet fever 


13 years. 








Spinal meningitis.. 




























4% years 
B 


















B 


















Fright 










Spinal meningitis. . 


14 years. 
B 
















B 










B 


















Inflamation of ears 












B 








Spinal meningitis . , 










3% years 














German 






























jerman 


Sickness 












B 










B 








Spinal meningitis.. 










B 


















Quinine 














i 





2256 
2257 
2258 
2259 
2260 

2261 
2262 
2263 
2264 
2265 

2266 
2267 
2268 
2269 
2270 

' 2271 
2272 
2273, 
2274 
2275 

2276 
22T 
2278 
2279 
2280 

2281 

2282 
2283 
2284 
2285 

2286 
■ 2287 
2288 
2289 
2290 

2291 
2292 
2293 
2294 
2295 

2296 
2297 
2298 
2299 
2300 

2301 
2302 
2303 
2304 
2305 

2306 
2307 
2308 
2309 
2310 
2311 



The Georgia School for the Deaf, 

CAVE SPRING, GEORGIA, 
1846-1893. 



By WESLEY O. CONNOR, 
Principal of tlie School. 



THE GEOKGIA SCHOOL FOE THE DEAF. 



In the year 1833 a memorial was presented to the legisla- 
ture of Georgia, by John J. Flournoy, a semi-mute, of Jackson 
county, praying for the establishment of an institution for 
the education of the deaf and dumb. 

This memorial was referred to the Governor, Hon. Wilson 
Lumpkin, with a request that he obtain full information and 
report to the next meeting of the general assembly ; so in 
November, 1834, the Governor, who had become much inter- 
ested in the subject, laid before the legislature all the infor- 
mation he had secured, exjDressing himself as j^articularly in- 
debted to Governor Fort, of Connecticut, and to Lewis Weld, 
principal of the American Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb, at 
Hartford, Connecticut. 

In the latter part of the year 1834, Mr. Weld, accompanied 
by two deaf-mutes, Edmund Booth, of Massachusetts, one of 
his assistant teachers, and Thomas S. Perkins, of Connecticut, 
one of his pupils, who was then a lad of about twelve years of 
age, visited the capital of Georgia, and Mr. Weld says of this 
visit : 

We reached Milledgeville on the thirteenth of December, and I lost 
no time in introducing myself and my pupils to Governor Lumpkin. 
The Governor received me and my pupils with marked affability and 
kindness, and expressed himself as much gratified that we had come on 
without waiting for his letter, which he sent for to the post-office and 
handed me himself. He informed me that the committee of the Senate 
to whom my communication of last September had been referred, with 
other deaf and dumb documents from here and from other places, had 
made a report and offered certain resolutions providing for the educa- 
tion of the indigent deaf-mutes of Georgia ; that this report had been 
favorably received and, though not acted on at all in the lower house, 
there was reason to hope it might pass in both, especially if a favorable 
impression should be made by an exhibition of my pupils, * * * The 
impression i^roduced by my pupils was evidently very favorable before 
their public exhibition. This took place on Monday evening, the 
fifteenth, in the Representative room, and was, I believe, very satis- 
factory. 

The board of directors of the American Asylum, in their 
nineteenth report, use this language : 

The reception of our delegation by the executive and legislature of 
Georgia was also very gratifying to the board, and particularly the pas- 



4 



The Georgia School. 



sage of the liberal and benevolent act above referred to (appropriating 
three thousand dollars), which took jjlace before the close of the session. 
While they are thus trying the experiment of educating them abroad, 
they will have the opportunity of deciding, on data which must be 
constantly accumu'ating, whether it is best to establish a Southern 
Institution. 

On Saturday, December 20, 1834, Hon. John W. Burney, 
of Jasper county, introduced into the House of Representatives 
a series of resolutions, prescribing the method by which to 
carry into effect the purposes sought to be attained by the 
above-mentioned appropriation, which were immediately agreed 
to, and the Rev. Elijah E. Sinclair was, under these resolu- 
tions, the first commissioner appointed by Governor Lumpkin, 
in March, 1835, to gather up and convey to the American 
Asylum, at Hartford, Connecticut, the deaf-mutes of Georgia. 
He was faithful and zealous in this work ; was reappointed 
successively by Governors Schley and Gilmer, and was pub- 
licly comjolimented by the legislature for his efficiency and in- 
tegrity. He travelled extensively over the State searching for 
deaf-mutes, but he succeeded in inducing only a few to accej^t 
the beneficence of the State. This office was filled in succes- 
sion by Rev. S. G. Hillyer and Rev. Jesse H. Campbell, both 
efficient officers. 

The number of deaf-mutes who were sent to the American 
Asylum for education was as follows : In 1835, eight : in 
1836, three ; in 1837, four ; in 1839, two ; in 1810, one ; in 
1842, one ; in 1843, one ; in 1844, four ; in all twenty-four, 
each of whom remained from one to six years. 

In the years 1842 and 1843 five deaf-mutes, children of Asa 
Prior, of Paulding county, two of whom had spent several 
years in the American Asylum, were sent as day pupils to the 
Cedar Valley Academy, which stood near the large spring in 
Cedartown, and was presided over by Benjamin Mosely, a 
noted educator of that day, which may be considered as the 
first attempt made in Georgia to impart instruction to the 
deaf and dumb. No record remains of this work that will 
give any idea of the measure of success that attended the 
efforts made during these two years, but it is presumed that 
it did not amount to much, as there was no one connected 
with the enterprise who had had any experience with the deaf 
and dumb. 

The deaf-mutes of Georgia are indebted much to the energy 
and efficient action of Rev. Jesse H. Campbell for his agency 



The Georgia School. 



5 



in procuring the location of an institution for their instruction 
within the limits of the State. His philanthropic and Christian 
heart prompted him to endeavor to ameliorate the condition of 
those who, on account of the distance to the American Asylum, 
would not avail themselves of the privileges offered by the 
State. 

His first step was to have the previous acts amended so as 
to allow deaf-mutes to be educated in Georgia upon the same 
terms as at Hartford. One section of the amendatory act, 
approved December 25, 1845 — and a grand Christmas gift it 
proved to be to the deaf-mutes of the State — was as follows: 

Section 3. And be it fartliev enacted by the authority aforesaid, That 
His Excellency the Governor be authorized to remove such beneficiaries 
as are now at the said Asylum at Hartford, if the means of a proper edu- 
cation be supplied at the Cedar Valley Academy, or elsewhere, on the 
same terms of economy to this State, and the general usefulness of the 
appropriation, made by said act of 1838." 

After the passage of this amendment he opened a corre- 
spondence with the trustees of several institutions of learning, 
and among them was the board of trustees of the Hearn 
Manual Labor School, at Cave Spring, in Floyd county. An 
arrangement was effected between Mr. Campbell and the 
trustees of this school, by which a department should be opened 
for the reception of deaf-mute pupils. The preliminary ar- 
rangements having been completed, Mr. O. P. Fannin, the 
associate principal of the Hearn School, — a Georgian by birth 
and education, — and a gentleman of fine literary attainments, 
was deputized to proceed to Hartford to learn the method 
of teaching the deaf and dumb, and to bring the Georgia 
pupils from the American Asylum and enter them in the 
deaf-mute department of the Hearn School. This depart- 
ment was placed under the immediate supervision of Mr. 
Fannin, and upon his return, after an absence of several 
months, was opened May 15, 1846, in a log cabin which stood 
directly in the rear of the present Hearn School building, 
with four pupils in attendance, viz., Thomas Mims, of Thomas 
county ; Murdock McDuffie, of Pulaski county ; Temperance 
L. Jordan, of Oglethorpe county, and Elmira Pugh, of Upson 
county. 

This period, to which the friends of the deaf and dumb 
can 710W look with pleasing reflections, was fraught with a de- 
gree of interest far beyond anything that was conjectured at 



6 



The Georgia School. 




(Piincipal, 1846-"85T.) 



The Georgia School. 



7 



the time. The novelty of the undertaking, and the entire 
absence of any knowledge of the deaf-mute character, as well 
as of the obstacles that stood in the way of his acquiring an 
education, on the part of all persons connected therewith, 
seemed to carry with it the promise of an early failure and dis- 
continuance; but such was not the case, for the projectors 
" had builded wiser than they knew." 

While in attendance upon this department the pupils were 
boarded in private families ; the males with A. Richardson and 
Carter W. Sparks, and the females with Rev. W. D. Cowdrey. 

Of course, the results of the school work which followed the 
opening of this department were not such as could have been 
desired, but under the adverse circumstances in which the 
labor was performed they were such as would commend 
themselves to the good judgment of the friends of the deaf 
and dumb all over the State. In the meantime the services 
of Mr. Josephus B. Edwards, formerly a beneficiary of the 
State at the American Asylum, were secured as an assistant 
teacher. The number of pupils had increased to a dozen or 
more, and thus the department stood at the close of the year 
1847. 

At the session of the legislature in the winter of 1847, the 
second step was taken toward the establishment of a perma- 
nent institution for the deaf and dumb in Georgia, by the pas- 
sage of an act, which was approved December 16, 1847, locat- 
ing the Georgia Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb in Cave 
S23ring, and making the necessary appropriations for support 
aud for school purposes, and for the erection of a suitable 
building. This act also authorized the Governor to appoint a 
board of five commissioners, one of whom must be the teacher 
in charge of the deaf-mute department of the Hearn School, 
under whose supervision and control the Institution should be 
conducted. Mr. Fannin and Dr. I. N. Culbertson visited Mil- 
ledgeville in the interests of the deaf and dumb, and used their 
influence in securing the passage of this act. 

The five commissioners appointed by the Governor under 
this act, were Dr. George D. Philips, of Habersham county ; 
Dr. Leonidas B. Mercer, of Lee county ; Dr. Isaac N. Culbert- 
son, Oliver P. Fannin, and Seaborn J. Johnson, of Floyd 
county. As soon as practicable, this board met and organized 
by the election of Dr. I. N. Culbertson president, and S. J. 
Johnson secretary and treasurer. They also elected Mr. O. P. 



8 



The Georgia School. 



Fannin principal instructor, and J. B. Edwards as his assist- 
ant. 

The next work of the board was the selection of a suitable 
site for the erection of the necessary buildings for an institu- 
tion, which was effected by the purchase, from the trustees of 
the Hearn Manual Labor School, of a lot of eight and six-tenths 
acres, for which two hundred and tifty two dollars was paid. 
This lot was pleasantly located in the eastern part of the vil- 




LOG cabin in which deaf mutes were FIBST Sl'STBMATICALLY TAUGHT IN GEOKGIA, AND OCCUPIED 
FOE SCHOOL PUEPOSES FEOM 184G TO 1849. 



lage, and finely watered by a large limestone spring of pure 
cold water, and having its western boundary within thirty feet 
of a bold, limpid stream, of which the cave spring is the source. 
From the premises a fine view is had of Van's valley and its 
picturesque scenery. The valley is named for Dave Van, a sub- 
chief of the Cherokees, and is one of the most beautiful and 
fertile in North Georgia. 

A plan for a building was procured and adopted which at 



The Georgia Sc/iool. 



9 



the time was thought to be ample for all who would apply for 
admission for many years to come. It was contracted to be 
built of brick, forty feet wide by seventy feet long, and two 
stories high. Halls running east and west on each floor di- 
vided the building into four large rooms. 

In the spring of the year 1849 the announcement was made 
that the building would be ready for occupancy by the first of 
July following, so the board of commissioners proceeded to 
select suitable persons to fill the positions of steward and ma- 




GEOEGIA SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF (DOltMITOSY, LOOKI^^Ci S.E.; 1887-18y3). 

tron of the Asylum. Mr. John M. Carroll, a gentleman whose 
energy of character well qualified him for the discharge of the 
duties pertaining to the office, was chosen steward, and his 
wife, Mrs. Sarah Carroll, who was well fitted in every way for 
the place, was made matron, and it may be interesting to the 
people of this generation to say that they accepted the posi- 
tions under a contract which required them to " furnish all the 
necessary household and kitchen furniture, and family utensils 
of such style and quality as the board of commissioners might 



10 



The Georgia School. 



approve, at their own expense, and also to furnisli the shops 
pertaining to said institution, with all necessary (ools and mate- 
rials for carrying on the business thereof, and procure the 
services of some one or more mechanics of sufficient skill to 
instruct the boys in the art and mysteries of a trade, at his 
own expense, provided, nevertheless, that it should be such a 
one as the said board of commissioners would approve." As 
a compensation for all this they were allowed the services of 
all male mutes who were in proper condition to labor, for and 
during the hours set aj^art for labor, and to appropriate to 
their own use all the proceeds and incomes arising from the 
shops, and, in addition, were paid six dollars per month for 
each 23upil in attendance. And in this day of technical train- 
ing it may be well to give from the minutes of the meeting of 
the board of June 24, 1848, the following extract to show that 
the im^jortance of manual training was fully recognized, even 
in the days upon which modern writers are disposed to look 
and describe as days of elegant leisure and idleness on the part 
of the Southern j^eople. The commissioners say : " The work- 
ing department, which the board conceive to be one of the 
most prominent and efficient auxiliaries that has been, or can 
be employed to give useful knowledge to any class, cannot, 
under the existing circumstances, be made as effectual as 
could be desired." 

Friday, June 29, 1849, and the Sunday following, were set 
apart for a public examination of the pupils and for a dedication 
of the building. Hon. Augustus E. Wright, of Cassville, Ga., 
was chosen to deliver the dedication address, and Rev. N. G. 
Foster, of Madison, Ga., the dedication sermon. From the 
high standing of these gentlemen as persons of acknowledged 
ability and eloquence, it is perhaj^s unnecessary to say that a 
large concourse of people were on hand to witness the novel 
exercises, and to listen to the eloquent and learned discourses 
delivered by them, and in which they did full justice both to 
the theme and to the occasion. 

On the first day of July, 1849, Sunday, the Georgia Asylum 
for the Deaf and Dumb began its first legitimate work. 

In the year 1850 the ell leading in an easterly direction, 
twenty-seven feet wide by fifty-five feet long, was added. 

In 1854 the time allowed the pupils in school was increased 
from four years to six years. 

In 1857 the south extension, fifty feet wide by seventy-two 



The Georgia School. 



11 



feet long, was added, together with the twenty by twenty- 
seven feet addition to the east end. At the same time the old 
roof was taken off, and a new one of different style substituted, 
covering the entire building. In this year, also, the shop 
building of brick, thirty feet by one hundred feet and two 
stories high, was erected. 

In the autumn of 1858 Mr. Fannin retired from the work, 
of which, from the time of its inauguration in the deaf-mute 
department of the Hearn School to the time of his departure, 
he was the spirit and presiding genius. In every effort that 
was made to advance the interests of the deaf and dumb of 
Georgia, during this time, he was a principal factor. He was 
possessed of a rare insight into the difficulties that confronted 
the deaf mute in his every step in search of written language ; 
most thorough in his mastery of and graceful in his use of 
the sign-language ; patient and painstaking, and withal a 
most indefatigable worker ; hence his success in imparting 
instruction was not to be wondered at. His kindness of heart 
gave him a genial disposition and personal magnetism thati 
made him friends wherever he was known. 

Up to this time the Asylum was managed under several dif- 
ferent heads, each independent of the other and resjjonsible 
only to the board of commissioners. 

The offices of steward and matron were filled in succession 
under this plan by John M. Carroll and wife, 1849-1850 ; Dr. 
William A. Love and wife, 1851-1853, Dr. Love also filling a 
position as teacher ; Seaborn J. Johnson and wife, 1851-1857 ; 
Peter W. McDaniel, for a few months in 1858, and Alexander 
T. Harper, 1858-1859. 

Mr. Fannin was succeeded as principal by Mr. Samuel F. 
Dunlap, of Indiana, who entered upon his work in September, 
1858. At the following session of the legislature an act was 
passed making the principal the executive head of the Institu- 
tion, and responsible to the board of trustees for its manage- 
ment in all its departments, which was a long step forward in 
the right direction. At the same time the name of the board 
of commissioners was changed to the board of trustees, and 
the name of the school changed from the Georgia Asylum for 
the Deaf and Dumb to the Georgia Institution for the Educa- 
tion of the Deaf and Dumb. 

Mr. Dunlap wg,s retired in April, 1860, and the position of 
principal tendered Mr. Wesley O. Connor, a young gentleman 



12 



TJie Georgia School. 



^vho had entered the Institution in 1857, under Mr. Fannin, to 
learn the art of teaching the deaf and dumb, and who was not 
yet nineteen years of age : but he decHned the honor designed 




(Princpal, 1860-1862.) 

to be conferred upon him at so youthful an age, not being will- 
ing to assume so weighty a responsibility at his age and with 
his three years' experience. 



Tlie Georgia S^haol. 



13 



Mr. William D. Cooke, principal for sixteen years of tlie 
North Carolina Institution, was elected to till the position of 
principal, which he accepted, entering upon his duties the first 
of September, 1860 ; the steward, with the assistance of the 
teachers, in the meantime, carrying on the school to its close 
on the list Wednesday in June. 

In June, 1861, Mr. AV. O. Connor, having resigned his posi 
tion as teacher, took leave of the Institution and of his friends 
to enter the Confederate service as a private soldier. Later in 
the year Mr. J. S. Davis resigned for the same purpose, and 
thus the Institution was left without a male teacher. 

When the trustees met, the latter part of June, a committee 
of one, Mr. W. R. Webster, was sent to the camp of instruction 
at Big Shanty, at which Mr. Connor was drilling, to see if he 
could be prevailed upon to return to the service of the Insti- 
tution, as he was more needed there than in the field ; but he 
declined to return, although it was intimated to him by this 
committee that a vacancy in the position of principal was 
probable, in which case it would be open to him as a bomb- 
proof place under the State government for the war. 

From the opening of the Institution proper, in 1849, to 
March, 1862, there was no break in the operations of the 
school, which had continued to increase in numbers until 
there were about sixty pupils in attendance. At this date, on 
account of the turbulent and exciting times, as well as from 
the fact that the two teachers on whom the principal relied 
most were absent in the army, the trustees thought best to 
close the doors of the Institution, which was accordingly done. 
All the pupils were sent home with the exception of two orphan 
girls, and a family selected to live in the building, both to care 
"ior the two girls and to endeavor to protect the property. 

Daring the whole four years of war, although the village 
was first in the hands of the Confederate and then of the Fed- 
eral troops, the premises escaped without material injury. 
Much of the bedding, table-ware, and furniture was donated 
to the hospitals, and the rest scattered in various ways. The 
building was occupied for short periods as a hospital by both 
the Federal and Confederate authorities.. The school-desks 
and large slate blackboards escaped uninjured, for the reason, 
it is supposed, that these were two articles that a soldier could 
turn to no possible use. The two girls. Misses Hudgins and 
Bishop, remained dui'ing the war and re-entered the school in 
1867. 



14 



The Georgia School. 



At the session of the legislature in November, 1866, the 
first to assemble after the war, an appropriation was made for 
reopening the school, and a board of trustees appointed, five 
of whom had been members of the former board. This body 
met as soon as practicable after its appointment, and called 
Mr. "W. O. Connor, who had ended his career as a soldier in 
prison at Camp Chase, near Columbus, Ohio, to the principal- 
ship. Mr. Connor, after his return from his four years' 
service, entered upon agricultural pursuits in Cherokee county, 
Alabama, with the intention of making it his life business, 
and had not only not mentioned anything about re-entering 
the work of instructing the deaf and dumb, but had given the 
subject no thought. The State was not destined, however, 
to lose his services, and he was literally taken from between 
--the plow-handles and placed at the head of the Institution. 
Eev. B. B. Quillian and wife were appointed steward and 
matron, and Mr. James S. Davis installed in his old place as 
teacher. All necessary arrangements having been completed, 
the doors of the Institution were again thrown open for the 
reception of pupils, and the exercises of the school resumed on 
the fourth day of February, 1867, after a cessation of nearly 
five years, which covered a period fraught with the most mo- 
mentous events of our country's history. There were eight 
pupils present on opening day, but the number soon ran up 
to twenty-five. From that time to the present, the exercises 
have continued without interruption, though several times, 
during the vicissitudes of military government and reconstruc- 
tion, it was thought the Institution would be compelled to 
close its doors ; but somehow it escaped such a calamity. 
Once, however, if Governor Bulloch had not assumed a per- 
sonal responsibility for the money necessary to keep it going 
rather than see its usefulness even temporarily suspended, 
the school would have been disbanded for want of funds. 

In 1873 fifteen hundred dollars were expended to secure a 
supply of water for domestic purposes from the spring on the 
premises. 

Early in the year 1877 an act was passed by the legislature 
appointing a new board of trustees, and prescribing that the 
principal should have his residence in the Institution, which 
up to this time had not been the case. An act was also 
passed extending the time allowed pupils to remain in school 
to seven years for all, and power conferred upon the board to 



The Georgia School, 



15 




16 



The Georgia School. 



grant an additional three years' term in certain cases, upon 
recommendation of tlie principal. 

The board met as soon as convenient and, among other 
things acted upon, abolished the office of steward, as it was 
deemed an unnecessary one in a small Institution, requiring 
the principal to assume the duties that had to this time de- 
volved upon this officer. 

In 1878 the brick building, two stories high and twenty by 
thirty-six feet in size, and known as the store-rooms, was 
erected, and the capacity of the water-works increased so as to 
give partial fire protection. 

In 1882 the north extension, for the use of the principal and 
his family, was added, and in this year the department for 
negro deaf-mutes was opened in a building of brick sixty by 
eighty feet in dimensions and two stories high, purchased for 
the purpose, and located about two hundred and fifty yards 
from the main or dormitory building for the whites. F. M. 
Gordon and W. A. Caldwell are the teachers, and Mrs. Lucinda 
Gordon matron — all colored people. In Georgia the State 
laws require separate schools for negro and white children. 

In 1885 the school-building was begun, which was finished 
and occupied in 1889. This building is a handsome and sub- 
stantial structure, and well adapted for the uses for which it 
was designed. 

The roof on the dormitory was replaced in 1887-1888 by a 
handsome one of the mansard pattern, by which were secured, 
not only about twenty-five comfortable rooms, but a marked 
improvement in the ajDpearance of the building. 

The engine-house and laundry was added in 1890, and well 
equipped with engine and boiler, all necessary laundry ma- 
chinery, and a five-hundred-gallon steam-pump ; six-inch water 
mains laid, with ten Ludlow fire-plugs conveniently located ; 
hose-carriage with seven hundred feet of fire department hose 
purchased, and four steel stair fire-escapes erected to the dif- 
ferent buildings where needed, and this brings the history of 
the school to the year 1893. 

In all these years the attendance has gradually increased, of 
its own accord, as no special efforts were made to secure an 
attendance of a larger number, for the reason that until within 
the past year the dormitory was crowded to its fullest extent. 

The Georgia school has kept pretty well up with those of 
her sister States in her school work proper, but in her educa- 



The Georgia School. 



17 



tional work in other respects she still falls behind some of 
them, notably in the departments of manual and technical 
training. 

The combined method of instruction is used — that is, speech 
and lip-reading are taught to those to whom they can be made 
of practical use in their intercourse with their fellow-men, and 
the manual alphabet and sign-language used in imparting in- 
struction to all. 

The attendance is seventy white and thirty negro pupils, 
who are taught by seven teachers. 



18 The Georgia School. 

Trustees of the Georgia School for the Deaf. 



Name. 





Residence. 




Habersham Co. 



Dr. Isaac N. CuUiertson* ... 

Seaborn J. Johnson 

Oliver P. Fannin 

Hon. John H. Lumpkin* ... 

Abner Darden 

Rev. John W. Glenn* 

Josiah H. Gill 

Milton H. Haynie 

James H. Lake 

John Baker 

Thomas J. Davis 

Dr. George D. Philips 

Hon. James Jackson 

Hon. Turner H. Trippe 

John F. Green 

George W. Thomas* 

Walter E. Webster 

Hon. John W. H. Underwood 

Frank C. Shropshire 

William Johnson 

Samuel Mobley 

Alfred J. King 

Rev. John W. Glenn 

William M. Edwards 

Rev. Jesse H. Campbell 

Hon. Robert L. McWhorter 

George K. Sanford 

John H. Russell 

James H. Lake 

Josiah H. Gill 

James A. Green 

Albert G. Pitner 

Frank A. Glenn 

Green Cunningham 

Napoleon B. Green 

Dr. Joseph D. Thompson... 

M. R. Ballenger 

Lazarus J. Jones 

Samuel A. Echols 

Maj. John H. Dent* 

Sanford C. Trout 

Col. Seaborn J. Jones 

Capt. John W. Turner 

Joseph S. Stewart 

Dr. Robert W. North 

Maj. William F. Ayer 

James M. Walker 

Maj. Joseph A. Blance 

Capt. Felix Corput*. 

William M. Mosely 

Hon. John T. Boifeuillet ... 



Floyd Co 

do 

.... do 

do 

do 

do 

do 

.... do 

do 

do 

do 

Habersham Co. 

Clarke Co 

Cass Co 

Gordon Co 

Floyd Co 

do 

do 

do 

do 

do 

do 

do 

Oglethorpe Co. 

Fulton Co 

Greene Co 

Floyd Co 

do 

do 

do 

do 

do 

do 

do 

Cobb Co 

Floyd Co 

do 

do 

do 

do 

do 

Polk Co 

Floyd Co 

Newton Co 

Coweta Co 

Floyd Co 

do 

Polk Co 

Floyd Co 

do 

Bibb Co 



Year of 
Appointment. 



Year of 
Retirement. 



1848 
1848 
1848 
1848 
1850 
1850 
1854 
1854 
18.^4 
1854 
1854 
1854 
1855 
1855 
1855 
1855 
1857 
1857 
1857 
1857 
1857 
1857 
1857 
1858 
1858 
1858 
1859 
1859 
1859 
1859 
1859 
1860 
1866 
1866 
1866 
1866 
1866 
1874 
1876 
1876 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1877 
1880 
1886 
1888 
1889 
1891 
1891 



' Those marked by an asterisk have filled the position of President of the Board of 
Trustees. 



The Georgia School. 
Officers. 



19 



Principals. 



Oliver Porter Fannin . 

Samuel F. Duulap 

William D. Cooke 

Wesley Olin Connor. 



Teachers. 

Josephus B. Edwards 

Joseph H. .Johnson 

Dr. William Abram Love 

Josephus B. Edwards ... 

Wesley Olin Connor 

Miss C. Eugenia Sparks , 

James Scott Davis 

Miss Harriet L. Cooke 

Miss C. Eugenia Sparks 

James Scott Davis 

James Fisher 

Miss Editha Frances Connor. 

Miss Sarah Jane Posey 

James Franklin Moore 

James Scott Davis 

Connor William Wright 

Samuel Mills Freeman 

Connor William Wright 

Miss Lizzie Agnes Foley 



Stewards. 

John M. Carroll 

Dr. William Abram Love 

Seaborn J. Johnson 

Peter W. McDaniel 

Alexander Thornton Harper. 

Joseph J. Lathrop 

Rev. Bethel B. Quillian 



MatroriH. 

Mrs. Sarah Carroll 

Mrs. M. L. Love 

Mrs. E. M. Johnson 

Mrs. P. W. McDaniel 

Mrs. Elizabeth E. Harper. 

Mrs. Mary J. Lathrop 

Mrs. B. B. Quillian 

Mrs. Maria L. Bond 



Pliysicians. 
Dr. William Abram Love, 
Dr. James B. Underwood. 
Dr. Augustus W. Wright . 
Dr. James C. Watts 



Masters of Shop. 

Alpheus Summers 

Rev. James Earley 

Robert MeCord 

Robert McCord 

Henry Stevens Morris . . 



Place of Nativity. 



Georgia 

Virginia 

do 

South Carolina. 



Georgia 

do 

do 

do 

South Carolina. 

Georgia 

do 

North Carolina. 

Georgia 

do 

England 

Georgia 

do 

do 

do 

Alabama 

Ohio 

Alabama 

New Jersey 



Georgia . 

do ... 

do... 

do... 

do... 

do ... 

do.. 



do. 
.do . 
.do. 
.do. 
.do. 
.do. 
.do . 

do. 



do.... 

do.... 

Alabama . 
Georgia . 



Year of 
Appointment. 



do 

do 

Ireland 

do 

North Carolina. 



1849 
18.58 
18fiO 
18G7 



1849 
1851 
1851 
1858 
1857 
1859 
1859 
1861 
1801 
1867 
1867 
1886 
1871 
1871 
1872 
1876 
1878 
1887 
1891 



1849 
1850 
1854 
1858 
1858 
1860 
1867 



1849 
1850 
18.54 
1858 
1858 
1860 
1867 
1877 



1853 
1878 
1881 
1885 



1850 
1851 
1854 
1867 
1872 



OFFICERS AND TEACHERS, 1893. 



BOARD OF TRUSTEES. 



President. 
Felix Corput. 

Secretary and Treasurer. 
D. W. Simmons. 



Trustees. 



Felix Coeput, 
William M. Moseley, 
John W. Turner, 
Joseph S. Stewart, 
Robert W. North, 
John T. Boifeuillet, 
Joseph A. Blance, 



Principal. 
Wesley O. Connor. 

Instructors. 



C. W. Wright, 
Samuel M. Freeman, 



Floyd County. 
Floyd County. 
Floyd County. 
Newton County. 
Coweta County. 
Bibb County. 
Polk County. 



Mrs. E. F. Connor, 
Miss S. J. Posey, 



Miss L. A. Foley. 

Matron. 
Mrs. M. L. Bond. 

Assistant Matron. 
Miss R. E. Summers. 

Physician. 
J. C. Watts. 

Master of /Shoe Shop. 
Henry S. Morris. 



COLORED DEPARTMENT. 

Instructors. 

F. M. Gordon, W. A. Caldwell. 

Matron. 
Mrs. F. M. Gordon. 



HISTORY 



OF THE 



km Carolina Institution 



FOR THE 



EicatioD of k Deaf anil the Btini 



PREPARED BY 

N. F. WALKER, 
February, 1893. 



CKDAR SPRING, S. C. 



I 




SOUTH CAROLINA INSTITUTION 

FOR THE 

Education of tbe- Deaf and % Blind, 



This Institution was established, at its present location, Cedar- 
Spring, Spartanburg county, S. C, by Rev. Newton Pinckney 
Walker, in 1849. On tbe 22d of January of that year Mr. 
Walker admitted a class of five deaf children into his school 
for speaking and hearing children. By the end of the year 
three additional jDupils had joined this class and Mr. Walker 
decided to devote his entire time to the education of the deaf. 
He had spent a few months during the year 1848 at the Gave 
Spring (Georgia) School for the Deaf, preparing himself for this 
special work. Dr. J. H. Johnson, the present Principal of the 
Alabama Institution for the Deaf, informed the writer recently 
that he was teaching at the Cave Spring School in 1848 and 
gave Mr. Walker his first lesson in the use of the Manual 
alphabet. 

The names of the five pupils first admitted are as follows ; 

•lohn M. Hughston, E. Jane Hughston, 

E. Melton Hughston, Irene A. Cooper, 

Harvey W. Bennett. 

All of the above were residents of Spartanburg county, in 
which the Institution is located. 

The founder of the school was born in said county on the 
29th of November, 1816. 

In the first printed report of the Institution (1854) Mr. 
Walker says: " Little did I think, a few years ago, that I would 
ever be as I now find myself — surrounded by mntiplied cares of 



4 



Sovfh Carolina Inf^fitvtion for the 



w peculiar a character ; children whose comlition in life gives 
point to the sacredness of the trust; when indeed, at first, 1 
aspired to nothing higher in this sphere of action than the 
amelioration of the intellectual condition of a few deaf-uiute 
relatives of my wife." In the same report he says : "From these 
statements it would appear that, as the Institution is now being 
conducted, it might continue to dispense its blessings, though 
in an humble manner, without disturbance. And were I to 
consult nothing except my own interest in a pecuniary point of 
view, or self-composure in the uninterrupted possession of this 
property — a something which 'nature calls its own,' I might 




REV. iNEWTOX PIXCKNEV WALKER. 

never ask for any change, feeling that I am sufficiently compen- 
sated to raise ;:tiy family as my neighbors are doing. * * But 
over all this, I submit for your consideration, and of citizens 
of the State generally, that private property, being subject 
to forego material changes, is always unsafe for public pur- 
poses. And though content in my humble sphere, trying to 
manage my business as a unit, in an individual, independent 
manner, yet I am willing to acquiesce in any change in the 
matter which might be dictated by candid deliberation. My 
great desire is that the Institution, in some form, be perpetu- 



Education of the Deaf aitd the Btiud. 



5 



ated iu all time, in such a manner as to reflect honor according 
to that form, whether individual or State protection be thrown 
a.round it." 

In April, 1855, a department for the Blind was added, with 
Professor James S. Henderson, a graduate of the Tennessee 
School for the Blind, as principal teacher. 

In 1857 the school was changed from an individual enterprise 
to a State institution, and the Legislature made a liberal appro- 
priation for the erection of suitable buildings. 

The death of the Principal, Kev. N. P. Walker, occurred No- 
vember 13, 1861. In the Annual Report of the Board of Commis- 
sioners to the Legislature, after the death of the Principal, they 
say : " In the last report of our predecessors, your body was also 
advised of the death of the Pi'incipal, N. P. Walker, which 
occurred previous to the report, but after the expiration of the 
fiscal year. We have not supplied his place by the appoint- 
uient of another. This we could not have done if we had 
deemed it advisable, because of the appropriation for the sup- 
port of the Institution being less than it had been for the two 
preceding years. We are satisfied, however, that no change in 
the management or government of the Institution- is desirable. 
* * The Professors and their Assistants are connected by 
blood or marriage ; the utmost harmony prevails, and each 
appears desirous of advancing the interest of the Institution; 
and the introduction of a stranger as Superintendent and gov- 
ernor would probably cause dissatisfaction and destroy that 
harmony which is necessary to success. The only change made 
in the employees is the appointment of a Steward, who is the 
son of the late Superintendent. We therefore, at present, pro- 
pose no further change, and have directed the Institution to be 
conducted in the same manner as the lust year." The school 
was carried on in this way, without the appointment of a Super- 
intendent, from November, 1861, to April, 1865, at which time, 
on account of the unsettled condition of the country and of the 
finances of the State — the Civil War having just ended — it 
became necessary to close its doors and to send the pupils to 
their homes. 

No .statement of the origin of the school, with its successes 
and its difficulties, would be complete without mentioning that 
in all things the founder had a faithful co-worker in his wife, 
Mrs. Martha L. Walker, who, by her personal labor and con- 
stant words of cheer and encouragement made success possible. 



6 



South Cat'olina r)ixtttHtl<>ii for the 



She still lives (February, 18'.)3, ) and delights in the continued 
success and growth of the school. 

In October, 1866, J. S. Henderson and N. F. Walker were 
appointed Associate Principals, and the Institution was re- 
opened ; but after one session was again closed on account of 
the continued unsettled condition of the State 's finances. 

In September, 1869, the school was again reopened, with J. 
M. Hughston, a graduate of the Institution, as Superintendent. 
In 1872 Mr. Hughston resigned and the present Superintend- 
ent, N. F. Walker, was appointed. During the school-year of 
1872-73, by the direction of the Board of Commissioners, a 
building, on a lot adjoining the Institution, was fitted up for 
the opening of a department for colored pupils. On the 17th 
of September, 1873, the following instructions from the Board 
of Commissioners were placed in the hands of Superintendent 
Walker : 

" First. Colored pupils must not only be admitted into the 
Institution on application, but an earnest and faithful effort 
must be made to induce such pupils to apply for admission. 

" Second. Such pupils, when admitted, must be domiciled in 
the .same building, must eat at the same table, and be taught in 
the same class-rooms and by the same teachers, and must re- 
ceive the .same attention, care, and consideration as white 
pupils." 

On the reception of the above order the Superintendent and 
all other officers and teachers sent in their resignations. An 
effort was made to secure a Superintendent and teachers who 
would accept and be governed by the above instructions, but it 
failed. The .school, on account of above order, was closed 
from September, 1873, to September, 1876. It is proper that 
it should be stated that the same political party which was in 
power and issued the above instructions directed the reopening 
early in the year 1876, on the basis of the original arrange- 
ment, viz. : the establishment of separate departments for 
white and colored pupils. Superintendent Walker and most 
of his corps of teachers were reappointed. The progress of 
the school has been uninterrupted since its reorganization in 
1876. 

The Department for colored pupils was opened in 1883. 

South Carolina took her first step in the matter of educating 
her deaf children in 1832, or at least sent her first pupils to 
the Hartford (Connecticut) School during that year. From 



Education of the Deaf and ilie Blind. 7 

IH'62 to 184l», the date ni' the opening of the (Jedar Spring 
School, the State paid the whole or a part of the expenses of 
seventeen pupils at the Hartford Institution. Mrs. S. W. C. 
Rogers, nee Holmes, who now (February, 1893,) lives near 
Cedar Spring, and her brother, Joseph Holmes, were the first 
children sent bv the State to Hartford. 



IJrtT OF MEMBERS OF THE BO.\RD OF ( 'OMMI SSIONEE.S FROM 
1849 TO 1893. 

From 1849 to 1869 the Board was composed of the Gpvernor, 
ex offici,u, and two other members appointed by the Governor, as 
follows : 



Rev. Peter J. Shand, . 
Hon. C. G. Memminger, 
Hon. T. N. Dawkins, 
Hon. Samuel McAliley, 
Hon. T. N. Dawkins, 
Hon. H. D. Lesesne, 



1849 to 1850. 

1849 to 1861. 

1850 to 1855. 
1855 to 1862. 

1861 to 1869. 

1862 to 1869. 



From 1869 to 1878 the Board was composed of the Governor, 
Comptroller-General, and Superintendent of Education as ex 
officio members, as follows : 



Gov. R. K. Scott, .... 


. 1869 to 1872. 


Oomp. Gen. J. L. Neagle, . 


. 1869 to 1872. 


Sup't of Education J. K. Jillson, 


. 1869 to 1876. 


Gov. F. J. Moses, .... 


. 1872 to 1874. 


Comp. Gen. S. L. Hoge, 


. 1872 to 1874. 


Gov. D. H. Chamberlain, . 


. 1874 to 1876. 


Comp. Gen. T. C. Dunn, . 


. 1874 to 187G. 


Gov. Wade Hampton, 


. 1876 to 1878. 


Comp. Gen. Johnson Hagood, 


. 1876 to 1878. 


Sup't of Education H. S. Thompson, . 


. 1876 to 1878. 


From 1878 to date, 1893, the Board has 


been composed of the 



Superintendent of Education, ex officio, and four memberi' 
pointed by the Governor, as follows : 



ap- 



Hon. T. J. Moore, Chairman, 

Hon. H. E. Heinitsh, Sec. and Treas. 

Hon. D. E. Converse, 

Hon. J. F. Ficken, 

Sup't of Education H. S. Thompson, 



1878 to 1893. 
1878 to 1893. 
1878 to 1893. 
1878 to 1893. 
1878 to 1882. 



8 



Soijf/i Caroli)ia I iisfif idion for fhc 



Sup't of Education A. Coward, . 
Sup't of Education J. H. Rice, . 
Sup't of Education W. D. Mayfield, 



1882 to 1886. 
1886 to 1890. 
1890 to 1893. 



LIST OF SUJ'ERINTKXDENTS FROM 1849 TO 189-S. 

Newton P. Walker, 1849 to 1861. 

No Superintendent from .... 1861 to 1865. 

James S. Henderson, | Associate Principals, 1866 to 1867. 
Newton F. Walker, J ^ 

John M. Hughston, 1869 to 1872. 

Newton F. Walker, . . . . , 1872 to 1873. 

Newton F. Walker, 1876 to 1893. 




PROF. N. F. WALKER. 

TEAraiERS OF THE DEAF FROM 1849 TO 1893. 

N, p. Walker 1849 to 1856. 

1850 to 1856. 

1850 to 1852. 



R. C. Springs, 
J. B. Edwards, 



Eflvvatutn of the Deaf and the Blind. 



9 



.T. M, 
Miss 
Miss 
Miss 
Miss 
Miss 
N. F 
D. S. 
Miss 
Miss 
Miss 
Mrs. 
Miss 
T. H 
Miss 
Mrs. 



Huglistoii, 
M. -J. Cunniii^ha 
L. (J. Walker, 
S. J. Walkei', 
M. A. Walker, 
J. I. Rogers, 

Walker, 

Rogers, 
Eva Ballard, 
Bessie Eddy, 
Eva Ballard, 
L. C. Irby, 
M. M. King, 
. Coleman, . 
M. 0. J^herrerd 
G. Coleman, 



1854 to 
1854 to 
1854 to 
1856 to 
1864 to 
1869 to 
1876 to 

1879 to 

1880 to 
1884 to 

1886 to 

1887 to 

1887 to 

1888 to 
1890 to 
1892 to 



1887. 
1855. 
1856, 
1864. 
1865. 
1873. 
1879. 
1888. 
1884. 
1886. 
1890. 
1893. 
1893. 
1893. 
1893. 
1K93. 



ART TEACHER. 
Mrs. G. ColeuKin, rn'r Decker, 



1889 to 1893. 



DEl'AirniK.XT FOK COLORED PUPILS. 



J. Garrett, 
E. L. Boney, 
J. T. Carter, 



1883 to 1887. 
1887 to 1890. 
1890 to 1893. 



TKAi'HERS OF THE BLIND FROM 1855 TO 1893. 



•J. S. Henderson, 
Miss M. A. Walker, . 
Mrs. L. C. W. Hendej'son, 
N. F. Walker, . 
Mrs. M. A. North, . 
Mrs. L. C. W. Henderson, 
Miss I. M. S. Walker, 
L. H. Cromer, 
Miss R. B. North, 
Miss A. Stevens, 
Miss -M. P. Holland, 
Mrs. S. A. Stover, 
Mrs P. L. Meares, 
Miss B. P. Wright, 
J. S. Henderson (music), 
W. B. North (music), 



1855 to 

1855 to 

1856 to 
1870 to 
1872 to 
1876 to 
1879 to 
1881 to 

1881 to 

1882 to 

1889 to 

1890 to 

1891 to 

1892 to 
1855 to 
1869 to 



1870. 
1856. 
1870. 
1872. 
1873. 
1879. 
1881. 
1893. 
1882. 
1889. 
1890. 
1891. 
1892. 
1893. 
1867. 
1882. 



South Carolina Institutum for the 



H. W. E«tes (music), 
G. W. Dixson (music), 
A. Krapf (music), 
J. A. Holland (music), 
W. L. Stover (music), 
J. C. Meares (music). 



1882 to 1883. 

1883 to 1885. 
1885 to 1887. 
1887 to 1890. 

1890 to 1891. 

1891 to 1893. 



MATRONS FROM 1849 TO 1893. 

Mrs. M. L. Walker, 1849 to 1867. 

Mrs. A. R. Neagle, 1869 to 1873. 

Mrs. M. L. Walker, 1876 to 1878. 

Mrs. V. E. Walker, 1878 to 1893. 

The follovving Reports of the School have been printed : 
1854, '56, '58, '59, '60, '61, '62, '63, '64, '72, '77, 78, '79, 80, '81, 
•82, '88, '84, ■85, '86, '87, '88, '89, '90, '91, '92. Copies of the 
following Reports, in manuscript, are on file : 1870, '71, '73, '76. 

The Palmetto Leaf made its first appearance as an Institution 
paper in 1887 and has been published, somewhat irregularly, 
since that date. 

The total number of j^upils enrolled, from 1849 to 1856, dur- 
ing the time the school was the individual enterprise and prop- 
erty of Rev. N. P. Walker, was 65. 

The total number of pupils enrolled from 1849 to 1893 is as 
follows : 

Deaf, 297. 

Blind, 138. 

The number of pupils present February 1, 1893, is as follows: 

Deaf, 89. 

Blind 41. 

BOARli OF COMMISSIONERS, FEBRUARY 1, 1893. 

Hon. T. J. Moore, Chairman ; 
Hon. H. E. Heinitsh, Secretary and Treasurer; 
Hon. D. E. Converse, 
Hon. J. F. Ficken, 
Hon. W. D. Mayfield, State Sup't of Education, ex officto. 

OFFICERS AND TEACHERS, FEBRUARY 1, 1893. 



Superintendent 
N. F. Walker. 



Education of the Deaf and the Blind. 



11 



Matron : 
Mrs. V. E. Walker. 

Physician : 
Geo. W. Heinitsh, M. D, 

Teachers of the Deaf: 

T. H. Coleman, Mrs. L. C. Irby, Miss M. M. King, 

Miss M. 0. Sherrerd, Mrs. G. Coleman. 

Teachers of the Blind: 
L. H. Cromer, J. C. Meares, Miss B. P. Wright. 

T'UcJter of Drawing and Painting: 
Mrs. Ct. Coleman. 

Foreman of Shoe Shojj: 
E. P. Rogers. 

Pore/nan of Printing Office:. 
■I.T.Carter. 

Foreman of Shaj/s for the Btind : 
H. W. Estes. 

DEPARTMENT FOR COLORED PUPILS. 
Tfdrher of the Deaf : 
J. T. Carter. 

Teacher of the Blind: 
H. W. Estes. 

Matron : 

Eliza Alexander. 

A special teacher of Articulation was employed in 1880, and 
a second teacher was added to this Department in 1887. A 
teacher of Drawing and Painting was added to the Corps of 
Instructors in 1889. Fourteen pupils are receiving instruction 
inthis Department at present. 



12 South Carolina Deaf and Blind Institution. 



All pupils have training in some handicraft or useful occu- 
pation. The following schedule of hours is observed : 

Breakfast, 7. A. M. 

Morning Prayers and opening school, 8 A. M. 

School closes, 1 P. M. 

Dinner, 1:15 P. M. 

Shop-work, 2 to 5 P. M. 

Supper, 6 P. M. 

Study-Hour, 7 to 8 P. M. 

Evening Prayers, 8 P. M. 

Retire, 9 P. M. 

The above schedule gives the pupils eight to nine hours' 
work in Literary and Industrial Departments each day. On 
Saturday the pupils are engaged in Industrial Department from 
8 A. M. to 12 M. On Sunday morning one hour is spent in 
Sunday-school work by the teachers with their respective 
classes ; in the afternoon one hour or more is spent in the 
Chapel in Bible lectures or the reading of sermons. 

The Institution is located four miles south of the city of 
Spartanburg, in the Piedmont section of the State, in a county 
which borders on North Carolina. It is situated on and owns 
a tract of 157 acres of land. The building is 210 feet front, 
with an average depth of 65 feet ; three stories high, heated 
by steam, and supplied with pure water from a large, bold 
spring. The water is forced into tanks in the attic of the main 
building by means of a hydraulic ram. 

Cedar Spring was known prior to the Revolutionary war as 
Green Spring. It took its present name from the fact that for- 
merly a large cedar tree stood very near the spring. The 
place is historical. A battle was fought here between the 
Whigs and Tories on the 18th of July, 1780. 



Missouri 
School for thh Deaf and Dumb. 

A SKETCH OF ITS 
HISTORY, GROWTH AND PRESENT FACILITIES. 

By ftenry Gross, A. B. 



FULXON, MO. 
PRINTED AT THE RECORD OFFICE. 
1893. 



I 



School for the Deaf and Dumb. 



Until a lew years ago there stood near the outskirts 
of Fulton a dilapidated IVanie building, in which had been 
begun the work of educating the deaf of Missouri. In con- 
trast to this edifice, scarcely a mile awa}', stand the magnifi- 
cent buildings where the work is being vigorously prosecuted. 
This growth all took place within the life time of one man, 
who lived to see his work apparently destroyed but to 
reappear like the fabled bird of antiquity in a more enduring 
and symmetrical form." The school came into existence in 
1851, under the provisions of an act, approved on February 
28th, by which 40 acres of land with the buildings thereon 
were transferred from the Asylum for the Insane to the 
Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb. 

The founder of the school was a young man teaching in 
tlie Kentucky School for the Deaf, at Danville. One 
evening, after his day's work, he chanced to glance at a map 
of the Western States, and his thoughts dwelt on the many 
children of silence in Missouri, growing up in ignorance, 
unprovided nnd imcared for. The impulse came to him to 
write to two of his friends. Rev. W. \V. Robertson and Mr. 
Preston B. Reed, to influence them in behalf of the deaf 
of their State. These gentlemen resided in Fulton, and 



6 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



one. Mr. Reed, was a member of the Legislature, although 
Mr. Kerr was not aware of it at the time. Their S3'mpathies 
were activeh' enlisted and mainly through their represen- 
tations the act was passed lo establish the school. In 
looking around for one to guide the destinies of the newly 
started enterprise, the thouglits of the projectors reverted 
to their friend in Kentuck}-, whose earnest words had 
influenced their cause of action, and they offered him the 
place. He hesitated long, but finally accepted and prepared 
to bid adieu to the scenes of his early manhood where he 
had spent twenty years in teaching the deaf. Just as he 
was about to start for Cincinnati, he was detained by the 
illness of his little son. This proved a fortunate circum- 
stance, as the boat on which he had engaged passage to St. 
Louis was wrecked and many passengers lost their lives. 
In due time he reached Fulton with liis family and eat 
about carrying on his work in the new field. The 
preparations were completed during the summer, and on 
the fifth day of Noveniber, 1851, the school was formally 
opened with one pupil from 8t. Louis. This was a little 
Hebrew boy, named Jolm Isaacs. 

At first the growth of attendance was slow, but by the 
end of the first session in July, 1852, an enrollment of 
seventeen was recorded. This number was augmented 
during the second year to fifty-four. The number of pupils 
soon proved too much foi- the capacity of the original farm 
bnilding and in 1854, a tract of eighteen acres was purchased 
a quarter of a mile northwest of the original site, and a 
commodious building was erected thereon at a cost of 
$28,000. This building was dedicated by the Rev. N. L. 
Rice, a noted divine of the day, and the father of Mrs. E. M. 
R. Taylor, the present instructor of the art department. 
These quarters proved adequate to the needs of the school 
for over a decade. During the civil war, the work was 



■^1 



\ 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



9 



suspended. Supt. Kerr retired to a farm in Audrain County, 
about 20 miles north of Fulton. He took with him several 
of his pupils who had no homes and there continued their 
education. The Federal authorities made use of the estab- 
lishmt'ui as a barracks and military [irison. On April 25, 
1863, the Board of Commissioners formally took possession 
of the grounds and buildings and reopened the school. 
Supt. Kerr was induced to take charge of its affairs, which 
control he only relinquished at the behests of advanced age. 
The Superintendent also acted as steward besides performing 
his duties in tlie school room. The growth of the school 
and the corresponding increase in its accounts influenced the 
Board of Commissioners to ask for a steward to attend to 
the subsistence department and thus allow the Superin- 
tendent to devote more time to the educational department. 
In their report for 1857-58, the Board of Commissioners 
had asked for authority to appoint a steward to relieve the 
Superintendent of the financial management. This was 
granted, but after the reopening of the school in 1863, the 
Superintendent again was required to perform the duties of 
steward, which soon grew too onerous. Accordingly Mr. 
James K. Sheley was appointed in 1873 as steward, and Mrs. 
Kate B. Sheley as matron. Mrs. Susan M. Kerr, after 
assisting her husband for 21 years as matron, resigned in 

1872, to be succeeded by Miss C. C. McNair, who retired in 

1873. Mr. and Mrs. Sheley filled their positions faithfully 
and acceptably until 1889, when Mr. Sheley was forced by 
failing health to retire. Mr. and Mrs. J. W. Overton were 
elected to fill the vacancies. In June, 1891, Mr. J. E. 
Watson and Mrs. Mary Gathright were elected steward and 
matron, and have held the positions since. 

Mr. Kerr continued to manage the afifairs of the insti- 
tution so well, that in 1872 a new three-story school house 
had to be built to accommodate the increased attendance. 



10 



SCHOOL I'OI! TllK 



But these additions proved inadequate and in 1SS;> the front 
and wings were altered and enlarged to give 21 more rooms 
for dormitory and hospital ui-e. On the night of Fehruary 
■27. 1888, while the pupils were assembled for study, a fire 
was discovered in the tower of the centre Iniilding. Every 
thing possible was done to check the flames, but as there 
was no fire engine, although an abundant quantity of water 
was only a short distance away, the tire continued to spread. 
A strong breeze from the southeast aided in the work of 
demolition, and only the school house was saved. The 
citizens of Fulton rendered valuable assistance in saving the 
clothing and household goods of the institution. They also 
generously took care of the children until the Board was 
able to make temporary arrangements for their care. The 
large brick shops, which had just been comjileted. were 
cleared out and fitted up as dormitories for the girls. The 
boys were lodged in the two-story brick building wliich had 
been used as the printing-office and shoe-shop. With the 
funds for enlai'ging the l)arn, the Board ere(,'ted a temporary 
dining-hall of pine boarding. This was afterwards used as a 
temporar)' carpenter-shop. In a week after the fire, the 
school duties were resumed. Two theories have been 
advanced to account for the origin of the hre. One was 
that it resulted from a defective flue in the centre building; 
the other that it was caused by the defective insulation 
of the electric wires. The latter is probably the correct 
theor}'. 

Only a few months before the lire the Board had in- 
creased the insurance on the main buildings to $Go,000. The 
companies interested promj^tly met their obligations, and in 
consideration of an early settlement, a small discount was 
deducted. With the $64,500 of insurance money and 
$11,630 of balances from other funds, the Board proceeded 
to rebuild. The east wing was erected under the direction 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



13 



of the .steward, Mr. Sheley and Mr. W. H. Humphreys, the 
foreman of the cabinet shop, at a eost of $5,580.89. The 
centre building and west wings were let to P. McCarty 
Co., of St. Louis, for §70,450. The work on these buildings 
was confined to making them tenantable, further ajipropri- 
ations l;)eing expected to tinisli the interior. The General 
Assembly of 1889 appropriated $30,000 to complete these 
buildings. For the construction of a dining room extension, 
with study room and kitchen, an appropriation of $20,000 
was made. To provide a new school building, $30,000 was 
granted. These buildings now furnish sufficient accom- 
modations for 325 pupils. 

The infirmities of advanced age had begun to press 
heavily on the veneral)le Superintendent. Along with his 
seventeenth and last biennial report to the Board of Commis- 
sioners, he presented his resignation. On the 28tla of Feb- 
ruary, 1889, he laid aside the harness of an educator of the 
deaf, which he had worn continuously for fifty-eight years. 
His health had been feeble for some time, and his friends 
feared that the sudden release from the cares of the institu- 
tion would be fatal. Their fears seemed unfounded for three 
months, but on the morning of the 24th of May, — scarcely 
three months later — -he sank to his eternal rest. No man 
stood higher in the regard of the community tlian Dr. Kerr, 
as the vast concourse at his funeral testified. His body 
was borne to its last resting place by the male teachers, 
and laid by the side of his wife and sons who had preceeded 
him. Only two weeks before his death, the faculty of the 
National Deaf-Mute College, of Washington, D. C, had 
conferred upon him the honorary degree of Doctor of 
Humane Letters, in consideration of his distinguished ser- 
vices in the cause of deaf-mute education. 

The mantle of Dr. Kerr fell to his assistant superin- 
tendent, who was elected in June, 1889, to the superin- 



14 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



tendency. Trained by the venerable head, Mr. Tate ha^ 
carried forward the work with fresh vigor. He commenced 
his work as a teacher in 1876, when he was appointed soon 
after graduating from Westminster College. By successive 
steps he rose from teaching a primary class to the highest 
class and to the position of assistant superintendent in 1887. 

IJESCKIPTIOX OF BUILDINGS. 

The buildings are grouped in a semi-circle with the 
school house on the west and the trades building on the east. 
They consist of ten substantial brick structures, having a 
frontage of 600 feet, including tlie sclu)ol and manual 
training buildings, and an extreme dei)th of "212 feet. The 
main buildings stand on a terrace, from which the lawn 
slopes gently southward. They are flanked on the east 
and west b}^ the boiler-house and laundry and the girls' 
gymnasium, respectively. The centje building is a four- 
story structure, and the wings are three stories high. They 
are connected by 35-foot corridors, which are fire proof. 
In the rear of the west centre wing is the dining hall exten- 
sion. This is a two-story tire-proof brick building, 75 x 90 
feet. The centre building and west wings arc of fire-proof 
material and have iron stairways. The east transverse 
wing was used as the school house until the fall of 1891, 
when the new school building was ready for occupancy. The 
centre building and transverse west wings are used as 
sleeping quarters by the girls and female teachers and 
employes. The girls' workshops and study rooms are also 
located here. The girls' hospital is in the west centre wing. 
The transverse east wing is occupied by the boys and their 
hospital is in the west centrg wing. The dining hall 
addition has a refectory 75 x 45 feet, with an extension of 
45 X 45 feet, on the second floor. It has a seating capacity 
for 350. The first floor is used as the study room of the 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



15 



younger boys, and the kitclien aud pantry are in the rear. 
The school house stands a short distance from the front of 
the west transverse wing. It is tliree stories in height and 
has a ten-aud-a-half-foot liasenient. It contains twenty 
rooms and a chapel and gallery, eapable of seating 800 
persons. Tlu* rooms arc all large and well-lighted and 
ventilated. .\. six-foot tunnel for steam pipes and electric 
light wires connects the school house with the transverse 
west wing, and affords a passageway for the pupils in very 
inclement weather. 

.MKTUODS OK I.NS'l'UrcTloX. 

The methods pursue(l in instructing the deat are the 
same as those in a majority of tlu' schools for the deaf in the 
United States. Allliough Mr. Kerr was a firm believer in 
the sigri language as a means of instruction, yet he perceived 
early that a part of the pupils would be benefited by artic- 
ulation, and advocated its introduction. In the report of 
1867-()S, lu! asked for the employment of a. teacher of articul- 
ation. After repeated solicition. the Board of Commissioners 
were granted the desired autlioiity, and in 1873 Miss Mary 
C. McClelland, now Mi's. .Mary M. Tate, was transferred 
from the sign department to take charge of the new venture. 
Under her able care the experiment proved very successful, 
and in 1881 Miss Eliza ^F. lleed was also transferred to this 
department, on account o( the growth of the class in artic- 
ulation. In 1888 it was decided to try the experiment of 
teaching pupils b}' the oral method. The result has proved 
satisfactory, though the number of jiupils in a class must be 
limited. At present sixty pupils receive instruction in 
articulation for 40 minutes each day. The rest of their 
scho(d day is spent in the sign dei)artuient. Six pupils are 
taught orally during the wbob:' "f tbo time. In the academic 



16 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



classes signs are almost entire!}' discarded and recitations 
are conducted by finger spelling and writing. 

A brief sketch of the process pursued in beginning the 
education of a deaf and dumb child by means of the sign 
language would not be out of place liere. No just com- 
parison can be made between the work of a teacher of the 
deaf and that of a public school teachei'. The one gives 
individual instruction to his class; the other addresses them 
in the aggregate. Morever, the hearing child acquires at 
home a vocabulary', of which his teacher avails himself, but 
a deaf child very seldom has such a previous instruction. 
He comes to school with his mind a total blank. He does 
not know the names of even the simplest actions and house- 
hold objects. The child is taught to form the letters of the 
alphabet on his fingers and to write them. Then the picture 
of some familiar object, as that of a dog, is shown him. The 
name of the object is written out, and he is taught to spell it 
on his fingers and to copy it on his slate. Then more names 
are learned, and in a similar way he learns the names of 
visible actions. One of the class is directed to walk. The 
name of the action is taught and its connection with the 
action is impressed on his mind. Having mastered the 
names of several objects and actions, he is instructed how to 
form them into simple sentences. Usually after a year's 
instruction a pupil knows the names of from twenty-five to 
fifty objects and of most of the visible actions. With a good 
start, the child increases the store of his knowledge and 
finishes his course in the school with the history of his 
country and of the world and practical arithmetic. In artic- 
ulation the semi-mute is instructed on the right pronunci- 
ation ot words, and to read the motions of the lips. Oral 
teaching is by a kind of sign language — substituting the 
motions of the lips for the gestures of the hands. 



I 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



17 



TIME OF INSTRUCTION. 

By the provisions of the act establishing the school, 
pupils were allowed the benefits of the institution for three 
years. This was increased in 1855 to five years, and again 
in 1857 to seven years. Subsequently the benefits of the 
school were granted for ten years, but this period was 
reduced in 1877 to eight years. This law continued in 
force until 1889 when the time was extended to ten years. 
This can hardly be considered too long when hearing 
children, with all their faculties, are instructed from twelve 
to sixteen years. The fact that the deaf have to surmount 
greater obstacles than the hearing in acquiring an education 
ought to secure them a longer period of instruction than the 
hearing. This proves sufficient in most cases to give the 
deaf a practical knowledge of the English language and 
mathematics. 

The ages of seven and thirty were fixed upon as the ex- 
tremes between which pupils could be admitted. This was 
on account of the large number of deaf children who had 
grown up to maturity without the benefits of education. 
Many of the earlier pupils were from 18 to 25 years of age at 
the time of their admission. .\.s the school became better 
known, younger pupils came in and it was rare to admit any 
at 25 years of age. During the period of retrenchment and 
reform, induced by the depression in value of property in 
1877, the limits were fixed at nine and twenty-one. At 
the revision of the statues in 1889, they were changed to 
eight and twenty-one. Once in a while, a child is brought 
who has passed the limit, but these cases are happily 
becoming rarer. 

In the early days of the school it was a difficult matter 
to induce parents to send their children to be educated. 
This was due to a mistaken impression that they could not 



18 



SCHOOL FOE THE 



be benefited. Some were influenced by a misplaced aff'ec- 
tion, others by parsimonj^ and many by timidit3^ To 
remove these obstacles it was the practice of the Superin- 
tendent or one of the teachers to give exhibitions with one 
or two pupils during the summer vacation. These exhibi- 
tions were usually given in the large cities and other 
localities where deaf children were known to exist. They 
contributed much to overcome the prejudices, fears and 
morbid affections of parents. But this plan entailed a con- 
siderable expense which was beyond the means of the 
Superintendent or teacher to continue several years in suc- 
cession, and it was soon abandoned. 

Assessors of taxes in the counties were required to 
return the number of deaf children in their districts, but 
this requirement was very imperfectly observed. Reports of 
the school were sent to those having the care of deaf 
children, and proved fairly fruitful of results. Within the 
decade circulars setting forth the benefits of the institution 
have been mailed. The names and addresses of the parents 
of deaf children were obtained from the Census Bureau, and 
they were induced by circulars to send their children to the 
school. The benefits of this school were free only to 
indigent children, parents were obliged to go before the 
courts and establish their inability to pay for their child's 
education. This requirement was rescinded in 1871, since 
which time the benefits have been free to all deaf children of 
proper school age. 

In the fall of 1892, the school session was begun with a 
division of the classes into primary, grammar, and academic 
grades. There are seven primary classes, and three gram- 
mar and academic classes. In the primary and grammar 
grade, the teacher has charge of his class all the time. In 
the academic grade the classes rotate among three teachers, 
each instructing them in a particular branch of study. In 



I 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



19 



1890 a course of study to cover ten years was adopted. 
With a few modifications, it is still in force. 

COURSE OF STUDY. 
First Year. 

Languaue— Names of common objects; a few simple 
verbs. Writing from actions. American Asylum 
series, number 1, commenced and completed, if pos- 
sible. Wing's symbols commenced. 

Arith.metic — Numbers from one to ten, exercises in com- 
bining and arranging objects, illustrating the four 
simple rules in arithmetic. [Geography of the insti- 
tution, of Fulton, and of Missouri commenced the 
first year and enlarged upon for the two succeeding 
years. Also teach the pupils to analyze every object 
whose name comes before them. This process is kept 
up through the entire course. The aim of every 
successful teacher is to lead the pupils to think.] 

Penmanship — Simple exercises in copying and tracing. 
Copy book number 1, Analytical series. 



Second Year. 

Language — American Asylum series, numbers 1 and 2. 
Writing from actions, objects, and pictures. Ques- 
tions and answers. Wing's symbols. 

Arithmetic — Exercises of first year enlarged upon ; and 
numbers above ten introduced at the discretion of 
the teacher, involving princii)les of the four simple 
rules of arithmetic. 

Penmanship — Simple exercises in copying and letter 
writing. Copy book number 2. 



Third Year. 

Language — American Asylum series, numbers - and 3. 
Journal and story writing. Writing from actions and 
pictures. Original sentences on words and phrases. 
Wing's symbols. 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



Arithmetic — Regular exercises in the four fiiudamental 
rules. Work prepared by the teacher and suited to 
the capabilities of the class. 

Penmanship — Copy book number 'S. Letter writing. 



Foui-th Year. 
Language — American Asylum series, numbers 3 and 4. 

Journal and story writing. Writing from actions 

and pictures. Words and phrases. Wing's symbols. 
Geography — Monteith's First Lessons. Map drawing. 
Arithmetic — The processes of the third year enlarged 

upon. Problems introduced, prepared by the teacher. 

Miss Barton's Arithmetic used as a guide to the 

teacher. 

Penmanship — Copy book number 4. Letter writing. 



Fifth. Year. 

Geography — Monteith's Introduction to the Manual. 
Map drawing. 

Language — American Asylum series, number 4 com- 
pleted. Journal and story writing. Writing from 
actions. Original sentences on words and phrases. 
Description of objects. Wing's symbols. Reed and 
Kellogg's system of diagraming begun. Class not 
to use book. 

Arith^ietic — Same as fourth year, carried farther. Pro- 
blems more complex. Multiplication table committed 
to memory, also division table, numbers as high as 
twelve. 

Penmanship — Copy book number 5. Letter writing. 



Sixth Year. 

Lanc+uage — Talks and Stories, published by the American 
Asylum. Journal and story writing. Writing from 
actions. Original sentences on words and jihrases. 
Description of objects continued. Wing's symbols. 

Grammar — Swinton's Language Primer introduced and 
completed, — books used by class. Diagraming, — 
Reed and Kellogg's system, class not to use book. 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



Geography — ^lonteith's Manual completed, special atten- 
tion given to geography of Missouri, county seats, 
townships, ranges, sections, and parts of sections, 
railroad systems. Map drawing. 

Botany — The Child's Book of Nature, part I — Plants, 
— by Hooker. 

Arithmetic — Miss Barton's introduced. Part I. Steps 
to be carefullj' stated and answers given in language. 

PEx:\iANsini' — Copy books. Business forms. Letter writ- 
ing. 



Seventli Year. 
Language — Compositions. Writing from actions. Orig- 
inal exercises in words and phrases. Reading lessons. 
Descriptions. 

Grammar — Reed and Kellogg's Elementary introduced 
and completed, if possible. Definitions. 

History — Lossing's Primary History of the United States 
and others used by the teacher. 

Physiology- — Teacher's Hand-Book to Smith's American 
Manikin and other books used by the teacher. Man- 
ikin by class. 

Arithmetic — Work of jprevious year continued and re- 
viewed. Miss Barton's Book completed. 

Pen.mansiiip — Business forms continued. Letter Mriting 
and compositions. 



Eig-lith. Year. 
Lan(;uage — Reading lessons. Original compositions. 

Words and phrases. 
Grammar — Reed and Kellogg's Elementary Grammar 

continued and Reed and Kellogg's Pligher Lessons 

in English introduced. Definitions. 
History" — Lossing's Primary History of the United States. 
PuY-sioLOGY — 1st Term, Cutter's Beginner's, 2nd term. 

The Child's Book of Nature. Part II,— Animals, by 

Hooker. 

Arithjietic — Franklin's Elementary. 
Penmanship — Letter writing. 



22 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



Ninth Year. 

Language— Original compositions. VVordtS and phrases. 

Reading lessons. Definitions. 
Grammak — Reed and Kellogg's High Lessons in English 

continued. 

Philosophy — 1st Term, The Child's Book of Nature, Part 

III. Air, Water, Heat, Light, etc. 
Civil Government — 2nd term Townsend's Seventy 

Lessons. 
Arithmetic — Franklin's Written. 
Penmanship — Letter writing. 



Tenth. Year. 

Grammar — Reed and Kellogg's Higher Lessons or Kerl's 
Academic. 

History — Outlines of World's History or English. 
Physical Geography — Huston's. 
Arithmetic — Work of previous year continued. 
Original compositions weekly. — Penmanship and letter 
writing. 

The preceding course of study combines the excellent 
features of former ones. These had been found serviceable 
in preparing the deaf for future usefuhiess. The school 
may well be proud of the record its graduates have made. 
One made some reputation as a writer of verse ; another has 
become the leading chemist of a large Chicago smelting 
company, several have become teachers in their Alvia mater ; 
one has become the foreman of the cabinet shop of the 
Louisana School ; the rest are scattered over the State, 
earning comfortable livings at their occupations the rudi- 
ments of which they learned at the school. 

PRESENT SCHEDULE. 

The school formerly had two sessions a day. The 
morning session was devoted to the school room work ; the 
afternoon session was given to manual training. For a long 
time this system worked satisfactorily, but finally the num- 



dp:af and dumb. 



23 



ber of pupils severely taxed the facilities of the industrial 
departments. Accordingly, in 1890, the present schedule 
was adopted. It provides for three sessions of 21 hours 
each. The classes of the school are grouped in three sec- 
tions, as nearly equal in number as possible. Two sections 
are in school while one section is in the manual training 
department. These sections rotate monthly. Each section 
has five hours of school work and 22- hours of industrial 
training. The sections are designated A, B, and C, res- 
pectively. In September A is in school from 8 o'clock to 
10 : 20, and again from 10 : 30 to 12 : 50. From 2 : 00 to 
4 : 30 it is in the shops. B is in school from 8 : 00 to 10 : 20 
and from 2 : 00 to 4 : 30 ; in shops from 10 : 30 to 12 : 50. C 
begins the day in the shops from 8 : 00 to 10 : 20 ; its school 
work is done from 10 : 30 to 12 : 50 and from 2 : 00 to 4 : 30. 
During the next month A takes the place of B, and B that of 
C, and C moves to the place of A, and so on. The advantages 
of this plan are two-fold : n:iore time can be devoted by the 
instructors in the industries to individuals in classes, because 
fewer come in sections, than when all come at once; and 
time passes more quickly and agreeably for pupils and 
teachers. The appended schedule makes further explanation 
unnecessary. 



COMPOSITION OF DIVISIONS. 



SECTION A. 



First Academic . . 
Third Gramraar 
First Primary. . . 



i\Iiss Boulware 
. . .Miss Kouns 

Mr. Gilkey 

. . .Miss Elliott 



Mr. Walker 



Fourth Primary. 
Seventh Primary 



SECTION B. 



Second Academic 
Second Grammar. 
Second Primary. . 
Fifth Primary. . . . 



Mr. Shuey 

Miss Neill 

Miss Grimmett 



Mr. Gross 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



SECTION C. 

Third Academic Mr. Grow 

First Grammar Mr. Watson 

Third Primary Miss Collett 

Sixth Primary Miss Spears 

... , ,. ^„ I Mrs. Tate, 

Articulation Classes -^^-^^ p,,,^^.,, 

Colored Classes Mr Ingram 



ROTATION OF DIVISIONS. 

FOR SCHOOL. 

First Division 7 45 to 10 20 and 10 30 to 12 50 

Second Division 7 45 to 10 20 and 2 00 to 4 30 

Third Divisicm 10 .30 to 12 50 and 2 00 to 4 30 

FOR WORK. 

First Division 2 00 to 4 30 

Second Division 10 .30 to 12 50 

Third Division 8 00 to 10 20 

(A 1st Division 

Sept. 14th to Nov. 7th ^ B 2nd Division 

( C 3rd Division 

( A 2nd Division 

Nov. 7th to Dec. 5th ^ B 3rd Division 

(. C 1st Division 

A 3rd Division 

Dec. 5th to Jan. 2nd -i B 1st Division 

C 2nd Division 

A 1st Division 

Jan. 2nd to Feb. 0th ^ B 2nd Division 

C 3rd Division 

' A 2nd Division 

Feb. eth to March Gth -| B 3rd Division 

C 1st Division 

A 3rd Division 

March 0th to April .3rd ^ B 1st Division 

C 2nd Division 

A 1st Division 

April 3rd to May 1st -{ B 2nd Division 

C 3rd Division 

A 2nd Division 

May 1st to June 14th -{ B 3rd Division 

C 1st Division 



DEAF AND DUMB. 25 

TIME SCHEDULE. 

Rise 6 00 A. M. 

Breakfast G 30 

Chapel 7 45 

School and Shops 8 00 

Change of Divisions (Recess) 10 20 _ 

School and Shops 10 30 

Close of School and Shops 12 50 p. jr. 

Dinner 1 00 

School and Shops 2 00 

Close of School and Shops 4 30 

Slipper 6 00 

Study 7 15 

Retire 9 00 

FOR SATURDAYS. 

Rise 6 00 A. M. 

Breakfast 6 30 

Shops • 8 00 

Close of Shops 12 00 

Dinner 12 30 p. jr. 

Supper 6 00 

Retire 9 00 

FOR SUNDAYS. 

Rise 6 00 a.m. 

Breakfast 6 30 

Chapel 9 00 

Dinner 12 45 p. jr. 

Bible Lecture 3 00 

Supper 5 30 

Retire 8 45 

INDUSTRIAL TRAINING. 

The value of manual training for our youth is acknowl- 
edged by educators. Manual schools have sprung uj) in all 
parts of the country to train the hearing youth in the use of 
their hands. Such a training is a greater necessity of the 
deaf than of the hearing, as the former is debarred by his 



26 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



deafness from otherwise acquiring a trade in this hurh'-burly 
scramble for existence. Few enjployers have the inclination 
to take deaf apprentices or the time to teach them. Hence 
the deaf should acquire an industrial education at the same 
time they are acquiring other knowledge. This view early 
impressed the educators of the deaf and they make provis- 
ions therefor. Superintendent Kerr was impressed witli 
the utility of such an education, and made repeated requests 
for appropriations for instituting a course in manual training. 

The Legislature of 1866 made an appropriation of 
$3,000 for the erection and furnishing of shop buildings. 
The amount proved insufficient for the purpose. Nothing 
further was done until 1869 when the Board appointed an 
excellent carpenter, who had been emploN'ed on the school 
building, to superintend the repairing around the institution. 
He was assisted by a number of the larger boys. The 
management requested permission to make his employment 
permanent, but this application was not successful. They 
employed a deaf-mute in 1874 to give instruction in shoe- 
making to a few of the boys. This experiment proved 
highly successful, and in 1875 the Legislature granted au- 
thority to make the venture a permanent feature. Mr. 
George McCauley was appointed the next year, and has 
continued in his position since. The success of this depart- 
ment was followed by the establishment of a carpenter-shop 
with Mr. M. F. Bell, as foreman, in 1876. He continued in 
his position until 1883, when lie resigned to devote his atten- 
tion to his business as architect. The gentleman has since 
made a name in his chosen profession, and a score of private 
and public educational buildings testify to his skill. The 
present instructor in carpentry, Mr. William H. Humphreys, 
succeeded Mr. Bell, and has proven very efficient. 

The printer's trade is one peculiarly adapted to the 
semi-mutes who have a taste for language. As no provision 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



27 



was made for teaching this industry, several boys were 
permitted to go to the town newspaper offices to acquire the 
trade. In 1879 a printing office was started with Prof. 
Henr}' C. English ns instructor. Prof. English issued a 
four-column folio, semi-monthly, called 27ic Missouri Deaf- 
Mute Record. This was soon changed to a weeklj', and the 
editorial work assigned to another teacher, to allow tlio 
instructor more time to teach the industry. Prof. English 
continued in charge of the office until his death, January 
8th, 1889. The editorial work had been in charge of Mr. 
Chas. M. Grow, Jr., who temporarily assumed the duties of 
foreman in addition. In April the writer, who had taken 
Prof. English's place in the class room, was appointed fore- 
man, Mr. Grow continuing the editorial work. The foreman 
had been one of the original compositors with whom the 
Record was first issued. Up to this time the paper had been 
coming out as a four or eight page four-column (piarto. In 
the fall of 1889 it was enlarged to a six column folio. This 
form had been retained. In December 1891, Mr. Grow 
retired from the editorial management, and the paper was 
edited by the publisher. Mr. Gross gave way last June to 
Mr. Wallace Williams, an old newspaper man of Fulton. 

Tlie adoption of uniforms was followed by the establish- 
ment of a tailor shop. The uniforms made by contract were 
not always well-fitting and did not prove entirely satisfactory 
in material. Mr. Chas. Merkle, who had several j'ears' 
experience in teaching tailoring in the Philadelphia School 
for the Deaf, was appointed in September, 1891. This 
branch of industry is proving very satisfactory. 

Mr. Louis Kuss, who has been serving as baker for the 
school since 1876, has been teaching five boys in his handi- 
craft. They help him to furnish the bread and rolls 
consumed by the pupils. This is a good trade for the deaf- 



28 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



mutes, and these are acquiring a most excellent means of 
making a livelihood. 

The girls were taught house-work from the inception of 
the school. This included sewing and general needle-work. 
In 1888 a department of cutting and fitting Tvas established. 
The older girls are instructed in measuring and cutting and 
fitting their dresses. The younger girls are instructed in 
needle-work. They take turns in attending to the cleaning 
of the table ware in the dining-room. All are required to 
keep their rooms in a neat and orderly condition. 

An excellent aid m industrial training has been the art 
instruction given by Mrs. E. M. R. Taylor. The students 
acquire a better understanding of proportions and utilize 
their artistic talent in their occupations. This is especially 
shown in the carving done by some of ihe cabinet makers. 
The classes in art go from the industrial departments, one 
division twice and the other three times a week for 40 
minutes each. 

The work rooms of the girls are on the first floor of the 
west transverse wing. The classes in sewing and in cutting 
and fitting occupy separate rooms, each 47 feet by 20 feet. 
All the mending of boys' clothing is attended to b}' the 
classes in sewing, numbering 79 girls at present. The 
classes in cutting and fitting measure and make the uniform 
dresses and other garments of the girls and many of the 
uniforms of smaller boys. There are 38 girls in these classes. 
The younger girls pass from the sewing to the cutting and 
fitting classes as soon as they are proficient in needlework. 

The industrial training of the boys, except the class in 
baking, is carried on in the manual training building. This 
is a two story brick building in the form of an L, having 
a length of 110 feet and depth of 100 feet. The carpenter 
and shoe shops are on the first floor and the printing 




UNIFORM OF GIRLS. 



I 

I 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



29 



office and tailor shop occupy the second story, together with 
the store and finishing rooms of the cabinet makers. 

The carpenter shop is 82 x 45 feet in dimensions. There 
are 20 benches supplied with full 'sets of tools. Among its 
equipments are two turning lathes, a planer, two 12-inch rip 
saws, two scroll saws, a mortiser, a freizcr and a moulding 
machine. All these are run by steam. The power is trans- 
mitted from the boiler house by means of a 7-8 inch steel 
wire cable, which also furnishes the motive power for the 
printing office. There are 36 boys learning the various 
branches of joinery work. They make all the furniture used 
about the institution, and attend to the repairing of the wood 
work and painting. Some very neat specimens of carving 
have been made lately. The hoys also attend to the varnish- 
ing and polishing of the furniture. This is done in a room 
20 X 24 feet, on the second floor. A section of the second 
floor, 34 X 45 feet, is used as the store room of the finished 
products. The value of the work done in this industry dur- 
ing the years 1891 and 1892 was $2,617.47. 

The shoe shop occupies the south extension of 24 x 90 
feet. Twenty-six boys receive instruction in making and 
mending shoes. The most proficient are able to cut and 
make the entire shoe. Four sewing machines of standard 
make are used. This shop does all the mending of the foot- 
wear of the pupils, and furnishes most of their boots and 
shoes. The aggregate value of work done in 1891 and 1892 
was $2,116.50. 

Immediately ov«r the shop shop is the tailoring room. 
Here Mr. Merkle has twenty-three boys under instruction. 
They make the uniforms of the la,rge boys and are busy all 
the time. This industry was established only one and a 
half years ago, but has already done work to the value of 
$2,388.00. 

The northern part of the second floor is occupied by the 



30 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



printing-office, comprising two rooms devoted to composition 
and press work. The former is 45 x 25, the other 25x20. 
The office has an outfit well adapted to its purposes, consist- 
ing of sixteen cases of long primer, three cases of brevier, 
and two each of nonpariel and pica, with a varied assortment 
of display type, aggregating 1200 pounds. In the press room 
are a Cranston Cylinder Country press and a Liberty 13x19 
job press. Among the other accessories are a 9 x 28 proof 
press, a 22 inch Paragon paper cutter, and a Lightning 
stapling machine, together with galley racks, imposing 
stones, and other necessary adjuncts of a first class printing- 
office. Besides issuing the Dea.f-Mute Record weekly, the 
compositors do all the circular and job work needed in the 
school and office. The reports of the officers to the legis- 
lature have been printed here for the last ten years. The 
present force of compositors comprises thirteen. A number 
of the former compositors are now pursuing their occupation 
in country towns and, in several instances, having become 
the editors or foremen of papers. During the last two years 
the office turned out work to the value of $2,616.03. 

LIBKAKY. 

No one can think of a school of this kind without the 
idea of a library suggesting itself. The librar}' of this insti- 
tution is almost as old as the school itself. Its nucleus was 
formed in 1855, when Mr. William Musgrove, then editor of 
the Lexington Express, interested his friends in collecting 
books for the school. A num.ber of volumes were donated by 
the citizens of Lexington, and the list was augmented as 
the years passed until now there are 1181 volumes. A large 
well-lighted room in ihe rear portion of the centre building is 
used as the library. In handsomely polished oak cases, 
made in the cabinet shop, are classified the books. There are 
ten classes of works — embracing history, biography, poetry, 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



31 



science, fiction, travels, religious and miscellaneous works. 
A prominent class is the readers, comprising a full set of all 
the readers now published. These are among the most 
3ager]y read of all the books. 

Pupils have access to the library twice a week. Mr. 
Henry Gross acts as librarian and assists them in making a 
selection. By statute the Board of Managers are allowed 
to expend $200.00 annually for the benefit of the library. 
Last fall the books were reclassified hy the librarian and 
a catalogue was prepared and this has been printed. 

PHYSICAL CULTURE. 

Although the need was early felt of giving physical 
training to the pupils, nothing definite was done in the 
direction until 1883, when the General Assembly granted 
$1,000.00 for fitting up a gymnasium. This appropriation 
was made at the instance of Senator James C. McGinnis, of 
St. Louis. The playroom of the girls was fitted up with a 
bowling alley and other gymnastic apparatuses. The base- 
ment of the school house was similarly arranged for the boys. 
The beneficial results of these arrangements were soon 
apparent in the increased vitality and elasticity of their 
bearing. The deaf as a class seem more prone to pulmonary 
affections than other people, and so are more in need of 
systematic physical culture. The fire of 1888 wiped out the 
girls' gymnasium, and in the confusion following, that of 
the boys 'was destroyed. After the completion of the main 
buildings, it was deemed best to have the gymnasium in 
separate quarters ; accordingly the old shop building, which 
had escaped the flames, was remodelled and fitted up with 
bowling alley and other appliances. Here the girls drill for 
an hour three times a week. A course in calisthenics, 
comprising exercises in free movements, with wands, dumb- 
bells and Indian clubs, is imparted by Miss Georgia Elliott. 



32 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



These classes in calisthenics have taken part in the annual 
field daj' contests, and have made very creditable showings. 
The boys have no regular gymnasium, except what nature 
provides for them. However, they have excellent play- 
grounds which are extensive enough to admit of four games 
of l)ase-ball being simultaneously played. 

SOCIETIES OF THE PUPILS. 

The pupils have two literary societies managed by 
themselves, with the assistance and advice of a teacher, 
That of the girls was founded in 1890 and comprises the girls 
of the four upper classes, The order of exercises consists of 
an essay, a debate between four members, two on a side, 
a dialogue and a declamation. The boys' society, named in 
honor of the founder of the school, was established in the fall 
of 1890. Its membership includes the three upper classes. 
The order of exercises is similar to that of the girls. Usually 
in the spring, these societies have a joint meeting in the 
chapel, to which the whole school is invited. 

A circle of King's Daughters was formed among the girls 
in 1890. The}'- meet once a month and give an interesting 
program. Manj' articles of fancy work have been made and 
sold by the members and the proceeds devoted to charity. 
The present circle lias a membership of thirty-five. 
Branches of the Young People's Society of Christian 
Endeavor have also been formed among the older boys and 
girls and have influenced them for the better. 

Outside of the school, there are two social and literary 
societies for the deaf, one each in St. Louis and Kansas City. 
The former is the older, having been founded in 1880, and 
comprises most of the adult deaf of that city. The Kansas 
City society has been formed recently. These associations 
take the lead in the social doings of the deaf. Lectures are 
given to their members and friends by invited speakers. 




MISSOURI SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF AND DUMB IN 1893. 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



33 



The social life is further enlivened by balls and parties, 
picnics and other amusements. 

RECREATION AND AMUSEMENTS. 

The saying that "all work and no play makes Jack a 
dull boy" has its weight with the management. By the 
schedule already given, it is seen that the pupils are granted 
ample time for daily recreation. Saturday afternoons arc 
regular half holida3's, and those, whose deportment during the 
week has earned it, are allowed to make visits to the town. 
For the special holidays, as thanksgiving, etc., the teachers 
prepare entertainments. These have consisted of social 
parties, pantomines, shadow and open, tableaux, lectures 
and stereopticon views. They are in charge of a committee 
of three teachers for each holiday. 

In order to develope a taste for reading, the teachers 
give monthly lectures to the five upper classes. The subjects 
are taken from among the standard works in the Library. A 
brief resume of the news of the day as gleaned from the daily 
papers, is posted in the two reading-rooms. These rooms 
are supplied with plenty of daily and weekly papers, and 
periodicals from other schools for the deaf. For two years a 
small paper was issued semi-weekly from the printing-office, 
filled with bits of news, suitable for the difi"erent grades of 
the school. This was called The Recorder, and was edited by 
the teachers who rotated weekly. Morning services are held 
daily in the chapel, conducted by the male teachers. These 
lectures precede the school work and last about fifteen 
minutes. On Sunday morning, after the service in the 
chapel led by the Superintendent, a half hour is devoted to 
Sunday School work. In the afternoon, the Superintendent 
gives short lectures on the history of the Bible. During the 
course of the week, the pupils reproduce these lectures as 
compositions. 



34 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



UNIFORMS. 

In the year 1890 a uniform was devised for the boys. 
In 1891 a uniform was fixed upon for the girls. The uniform 
for the large boys consists of four pieces, viz: coat, trousers, 
vest and cap. The small boys have knee pants and no vest. 
The material is cadet gray twenty ounce stuff to the yard, 
six-fourth yards wide. Three sizes of buttons are used, on 
each of which is found the words, "Missouri" across the 
center and "School for the Deaf and Dumb" around the 
margin. These suits are extremelj^ neat and durable, and in 
the end economical. 

Nothing could do so much to stimulate our boys to 
preserve their clothes as the uniform has done. Their 
conduct and bearing is evidently improved by this dress. 
The uniform is a source of protecUon to them from injury, 
incident to passing vehicles. As all these uniforms are made 
by the pupils in their trades, a number of them are thus 
afforded a means of becoming proficiQnt in tailoring and 
dress-making. 

The uniform for the girls was devised at their earnest 
request. They claimed partiality was shown to the boys. 
The uniform for the girls consists of dress and hat. The 
dress is of gray all wool serge, with yoke and cuflfs of navy 
blue velvet, and standing collar. The hat is a blue straw 
sailor with band of blue gros grained ribbon two inches wide. 
A belt is used varying from one and one-half to two inches in 
width of navy blue velvet. 

LEGISLATION. 

Man}' changes have been made in the laws regulating 
this institution. Among the provisions of the act establishing 
the school was one allowing the sum of $80.00 per annum for 
the maintenance of each indigent pupil. This amount was 



UNIFORi\r OF BOYS. 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



35 



subsequently increased to $100.00. All the other pupils 
were required to pay for their supj^ort and tuition. An 
indigent fund for the clothing and transportation of indigent 
pupils was furnished. The Superintendent attended to the 
boarding of the pupils until 1872, when the Board of Comis- 
sioners decided to assume entire charge of the subsistence 
department. A steward was appointed to attend to the 
accounts and make the necessary purchases. This system 
is still in vogue. The indigent fund law was repealed in the 
revision of the statutes in 1889. Hereafter indigent pupils 
can be clothed and transported at the expense of the county 
whence they come. Upon application of the parent, with 
proof of his indigency, the probate judge certifies the fact to 
the county court, which makes out the certificate to the child. 
In 1871, the benefits of the school were made free to rich and 
poor alike and have remained so since. This brought Mis- 
souri in line with the rest of the States of the Union. 

In order to ascertain the number of the deaf population 
in the State, assessors of taxes were required to make returns 
but this law proved inoperative. A late enactment makes it 
the duty of school enumerators to report the names, age, sex 
and color of all deaf children in their districts to the county 
clerks, who are required to make returns to the superin- 
tendent of the school. This law has been but imperfectly 
observed. 

A measure tending to hamper the work of the school 
room is the law requiring twenty pupils to a teacher. In 
order to comply with this law, classes have to be made up of 
different grades, for it is rare to find twenty pupils capable of 
making the same degree of progress. Consequently the 
brighter have to be kept back for their duller classmates. 
No other school has such a requirement. The graduates of 
the school felt the injustice of the statute, and at the reunion 
two years ago they passed a resolution asking for its repeal. 



36 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



A separate department for the colored pupils was established 
in 1889. This is in charge of Mr. Monroe Ingram, a colored 
graduate of the Kansas School for the Deaf. The attendance 
this session is thirteen. The legal title of the school was at 
first Asylum. But this was repugnant and misleading, and 
in 1874 the name was clianged to Institution for the Educa- 
tion of the Deaf and Dumb. The present name was given 
in 1889. 

HEATING AND LIGHTING. 

Flanking the main buildings on the east is the two-story 
boiler house and laundry. This building was erected in 1880 
at a cost of $10,000.00. In its five mammoth boilers is 
generated the steam to heat the entire establishment, com- 
prising an interior of over two million cubic feet. The steam 
is conducted through pipes j^laced in six-foot tunnels to the 
main buildings, hence by another tunnel to the school house. 
The pipes for the trades building are laid in a box, though a 
tunnel is projected to connect this building with the boiler 
house. The average annual consumption of coal is about 
48,000 bushels. The main buildings are heated with Bundy 
radiators, and the school house with the Perfection pattern. 
These are preferable to the old system of sheet radiators 
and pipes. The steam plant was put in under the direction 
of Mr. James Leach, who has rendered efficient service to 
the school for sixteen years. 

In this building is located the dynamo to generate the 
electricity for lighting purposes. This machine is kept run- 
ning all night. All methods of lighting, from tallow candles 
to gas, have been tried and discarded. Tallow candles gave 
wa}^ to kerosene lamps but Ihese were a constant menace to 
to the safety of the school. In 1870 sufficient appropriations 
were obtained to construct gas works. Unfortunately they 
were located too close to the buildings and proved far from 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



37 



satisfactory in other respects. In 1885, an electric light 
plant of tlie Edison system was put in. The fire of 1888 
made a new plant neccessary and the United States system 
was tried in a part of the buildings. There are at present 
564 16-candle lamps in the establishment, lighted by a 250- 
lamp Edison dynamo. It is expected to procure another 
dynamo to relieve the present over-taxed machine. 

An important factor in preserving the health of so large 
a community as ours is pure water. This is supplied in 
abundance from an artesian well of 707 feet depth in the 
boiler house. This well was sunk in 1883 and has not failed 
yet, though as much as 86,400 gallons have daily been 
pumped. The water is pumped into a large tank in the attic 
of the centre building, whence it flows to all parts of the 
place. The water has been found to contain traces of 
sulphur and iron. An artificial pond just north of the boiler 
house, supplied the school with water previous to the sinking 
of the artesian well. It is an excellent reservoir, and 
furnishes a plentiful supply of ice for the summer and water 
for steam heating and laundry purposes. Two ice-houses 
have been filled this winter with very thick and clear ice. 
The school has a pasture comprising about 100 acres. Here 
graze twenty milch cows, which supply the tables of the 
pupils with milk. A garden of five acres in the rear of the 
buildings is cultivated by the boys who are not in the manual 
training classes. Vegetable and fruits in session are fur- 
nished in plentiful quantities. ' 

To prevent a repetition of the catastrophe of 1888 a 
water main has been laid to connect with the city water- 
works. Fire-plugs are placed at convenient distances around 
the buildings. The sanitarj^ condition of the school is 
excellent. The grounds and buildings are kept in order by 
the steward and matron. The front has been laid out with 



I 



38 SCHOOL FOR THE 

walks and drive-ways, which, however, have not been com- 
pleted for lack of funds. 

A system of electric clocks was put in lately. It con- 
sists of 14 secondary clocks and connected with the central 
regulator are three tower clocks, and secures uniform time. 
The changes in divisions are made by means of a steam 
chime in the boiler house. It might be said that we wake, 
eat, and go to bed by chimes. 

REUNION OF FORMER PUPILS. 

In the spring of 1891 the Board of Managers, through 
the Superintendent, extended a cordial invitation to the 
former pupils of the institution to hold a reunion here. 
Over a hundred accepted and came from all directions, even 
from Pennyslvania. Several days were pleasantly and 
profitably spent in a social and business way. The new 
school building was dedicated bj'^ the Revs. A. W. Mann and 
J. H. Cloud, two deaf clergymen. The former has his head 
quarters in Cleveland, the other, in St. Louis. An associ- 
ation was formed of the graduates to be known as the Mis- 
souri Association of the Deaf. In the convention a number 
of interesting papers touching on the technical and moral 
education of the deaf were presented and discussed. The 
sentiment of the Association was in favor of a compulsory 
education law for the deaf, and a resolution was adopted 
petitioning the Legislature to pass such a measure. Another 
resolution asking for the repeal of the law requiring 20 
pui^ils in a class to one teacher was also adopted. The 
meeting attracted considerable attention, as it was the first 
of its kind in the State. The time and place of the next 
meeting is left to the executive committee composed of the 
following officers: Henry Gross, president ; Miss Dosia A. 
Grimmett, vice-president; Stephen Shuey, secretary; Chas. 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



39 



L. Minor, treasurer and Peter R. Wear, sergeant-at-arms. 
Impressive services were held in the chapel of the school in 
memorj^ of the late Superintendent, Dr. W. D. Kerr, of 
James K. Sheley, the former steward, and of Henry C. 
English, a teacher. These had a strong hold on the affec- 
tions of the former pupils. The Convention adjourned on 
September 5th, 1891, after a session of four days. The 
proceedings of the meeting were printed in a neat pamphlet 
b}' the school printing office. 



40 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



Statistical and Otlier Tables. 



NUMBER OF PUPILS AND TEACHERS. 







Enrollment of Pupils. 




* Number 


Periods. 










of 


Total. 


Male. 






Teachers. 




Pomale. 


New Pupils 


1851- 1854 


83 


45 


38 




3 


1855- 1856 


100 


51 


49 


41 


5 


1857 - 1858 


116 


63 


53 


27 


5 


1859 - 1860 


112 


G6 


46 


30 


4 


1861 - 1862 










•■ 


1863 - 1864 


38 


19 


19 


13 




1865-1866 


72 


37 


35 ' 


33 




1867 - 1868 


99 


39 


60 


51 


6 


1869- 1870 


170 


80 


90 


67 


5 


1871 - 1872 


211 


102 


109 


76 


7 


1873 - 1874 


207 


102 


105 


66 


10 


1S75 -1876 


254 


141 


113 


8] 


11 


1877 - 1878 


315 


180 


135 


77 


12 


1869 - 1880 


291 


178 


113 


75 


10 


1881 - 1882 


295 


176 


119 


85 


12 


1883-1884 


285 


188 


107 


63 


13 


1885-1886 


294 


180 


114 


68 


13 


1887 - 1888 


307 


175 


132 


84 


13 


1889 - 1890 


355 


223 


132 


123 


18 


1891 - 1892 


392 


252 


140 

1 


89 


18 



laelurling the suporintoudont. 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



41 



EXPENDITURES FOR EDUCATING THE DEAF AND DUMB. 



Periods. 



Support. 



1839 - 


1850. . 


$ 6,770 


00 


1851 - 


1854. . 


8,635 


96 


1855 - 


1866. . 


17,061 


04 


1857 - 


1858. . 


15,609 


27 


]859 - 


1860. . 


17,133 


61 


1861 - 


1862. . 


7,554 


40 


1863 - 


1864. . 


9.917 


94 


1865 - 


1866. . 


28,171 


17 


1867 - 


1808. . 


39,000 


61 


1869 - 


1870. . 


44,890 


54 


1871 - 


1872. . 


58,365 


27 


1873 - 


1874. . 


63,669 


50 


1875 - 


1876. . 


73,847 


13 


1877 - 


1878. . 


71,000 


00 


1879 - 


1880. . 


71,000 


00 


1881 - 


1882.. 


70,000 


00 


1883 - 


1884. . 


70,000 


00 


1885 - 


1886. . 


70,000 


00 


1887 - 


1888. . 


70,000 


00 


1889 - 


1890. . 


66,327 


10 


1891 - 


1892. . 


73,489 


77 


Totals 


$922,744 31 



Buildings and Im- 
provements. 



30,062 00 
8,875 00 

16,250 00 
2,350 25 



8,000 00 

40,000 00 
26,200 00 
30,000 00 



26,000 00 
7,800 00 
12,500 00 
90,400 39 
11,494 79 

1309,932 43 



Salaries. 



$ 3,333 


00 


5,430 


00 


4,484 


46 


11,250 


00 


4,050 


00 


2,722 


59 


5,783 


31 


7,786 


23 


12,316 


67 


13,254 


33 


15,615 


57 


16,346 


93 


22,296 


67 


19,025 


00 


19,722 


92 


21,100 


00 


22,732 


29 


23,315 


20 


24,754 


03 


23,460 


12 


$279,779 32 



In addition to this, $64,500 insurance money was expended. 



42 



SCHOOL FOR THE 
CAUSES OF DEAFNESS. 



Congenital 418 

Spinal meningitis 192 

Brain fever. ............... 57 

Scarlet fever 51 

Rising in head 36 

Fever 28^ 

Measles 25 

Typhoid fever. 26 

Fall 16 

Whooping cough 13 

Quinine 10 

Inflammation of brain 10 

Scrofula i , 10 

Malarial fever 9 

Diphtheria.. , 7 

Fits : 7 

Cholera Infantum 8 

Catarrh , 7 

Pneumonia. : .. J ' 5 

Teething '4 



Congestion of brain 

Cold 

Mumps 

Spasms 

Chronic throat trouble 

Chicken-pox 

Infantile convulsions 

Croup and phthisis 

Chills and fever 

Paralj'sis of auditory nerve 

Cramp 

Burn 

Paralysis 

Break neck fever. . ....... 

Erysipelas 

Poison 

Spinal fever. 

Unknown 



4 

260 



Total 1232 



AGE AT WHICH DEAFNESS OCCURRED. 



Congenital, i. e., born deaf, .' 418 

Lost hearing under one year of age 191 

■' at two years and under three 139 

" at three years and under four 81 

" at four years and under five 'iO 

" at five years and under six ■ 38 

" at six years and under seven 38 

" at seven years and under eight • 18 

" at eight years and under nine 11 

" at nine years and under ten 4 

" at ten years and under fifteen 12 

Not reported 222 

Total 1232 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



43 



CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF BOARD OF MANAGERS. 



Names. 



William H. Bailey. . . 

Alfred J. Moore 

Thomas B. Nesbit. . . 

Elijah T. Scott 

W. R. Kidwell 

J. W. Martin 

W. W. Tuttle 

James Dunn, Jr 

Daniel Nolley . ...... 

James H. Tucker. . . . 

Moses Michael 

Adams Peabody 

John W. Gamble. . . . 

Hamilton Hall 

William L. Wheeler. 
Charles A. Bailey. . . . 
Addison L. Robinson 

Philip S. Adams 

Samuel L. Dedman. . 
James Rickenbaugh. 

J. A. Hockaday 

C. A. Thompson 

J. A. Gallagher 

James Duross 

Frank Dessert 

James A. Leavell. . . . 

G. T. Dunn 

M. F. Bell 



Term of Service. 



1851 - 


1861 


1861 - 


1861 


1851 - 


1884 


1855 - 


1861 


1857 - 


1861 


1863 - 


1866 


1863 - 


1868 


XoDO - 


JLODv) 


1863 - 


1876 


1867 - 


1868 


1867 - 


1868 


1869 


1876 


1869 - 


1872 


1869 - 


1872 


1873 - 


1878 


1873 - 


1889 


1877 - 


1880 


1879 - 


1884 


1879 - 




1881 - 


1884 


1885 - 


1891 


1885 ^ 


1889 


1885 - 


1889 


1889 - 


1891 


1889 - 




1891 - 




1891 - 




1891 - 





44 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF TEACHERS. 



Names. 



Williani J). Kerr, f 

John B. McFarland 

James D. George 

Richard P. Kavanaugh * 
Adolphus K. Martin f-. • 

Benjamin T. Gilkey 

James H. McFarland .... 
Mrs. Lucy A. Gilkey.... 
Mrs. Dollie S. Marshall. . 

William S. Marshall 

Lydia A. Kennedy 

Mrs. Mary M. Tate 

Dosia A. Grimmett 

Mrs. Hannah Walthall f 
Mrs. EUena J. Marshall. 

Henry C. English 

John R. Dobyns 

James N. Tate 

Eliza M. Reed 

George W. Walthall 

Mary Hughes 

Mrs. Ida W. McCue 

Nellie Bailey * 

David C. McCue 

Mrs. Mary Van Sant. . . . 

Charles M. Grow, Jr 

Horace E. Walker 

Mrs. Emma W. Lea 

Henry Gross 

Nannie A. Pollard 

Monroe Ingram 

Georgia Elliott 

Gertrude Hensley f 

Anna T. Spears 

Mary N. Kouns 

Minnie Roberts 

Stephen Gilbert - 

Mrs. E. M. R. Taylor 

Stephen Shuey , 

Cecil R. Watson 

Cordia V. Boulware 

Lillie D. Neill 

Annie Collett , 



Term of Service. 



1856- 
1855 - 



1877 



1851 
1852 
1853 
■1861 
■1857 
1857 
1857 ■ 
1863^ 
1866 ■ 
]869^ 
1868 ■ 
1871- 
1872- 
1872- 
1873-1882, 
1874- 
1874- 
1876- 
1877- 
-1878, 
1882- 
1881- 
1881- 
1832- 
1886 - 
1887- 
1887- 
1887 
1889- 
1889- 
1889- 
1889- 
1889- 
1890- 
1890- 
1890- 
1890- 
1890- 
1891- 
1891- 
1891- 
1891 - 
1891- 



1889 
1857 
1860 

1864-1870 
1870 - 1880 



1881 

1884-1887 

1889 

1877 

1891 

1880-1881 

1889 

1890 

1887 

1891 

1891 



-1890 



1891 



1891 
1891 



" Died during term of service, t Died shortly after resigning. 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



OFFICERS OF THE SCHOOL. 



BOAED OF MANAGERS. 



Samuel L. Dedman, President Fulton 

Frank Dessert Macon 

James A. Leavell Fulton 

George T. Dunn Troy 

M. Fred Bell Fulton 



EDUCATIONAL DEPARTMENT. 



James N. Tate, A. M Superintendent 

Horace E. Walker, A. B First Academic 

Henry Gross, A. B Second Academic 

Charles M. Grow, Jr., A. M Third Academic 

Cecil R. Watson First Grammar 

Stephen Shuey, A. B Second Grammar 

Cordia V. Boulware, B. S Third Grammar 

Mary N. Kouns First Primary 

Lillie D. Neill Second Primary 

Annie Collett, A. B Third Primary 

Benjamin T. Gilkey Fourth Primary 

Dosia A. Grimmett Fifth Primarj^ 

Anna T. Spears Sixth Primary 

Georgia Elliott Seventh Primary 

Mrs. Mary M. Tate First Articulation 

Nannie A. Pollard, M. S Second Articulation 

Monroe Ingram Colored Classes 

Mrs. E. M. R. Taylor Art Classes 

Georgia Elliott Calisthenics 



46 



SCHOOL FOR THE 



OFFICERS OF THE SCHOOL. 



DOMESTIC 

James N. Tate 

James E. Watson 

Mrs. Mary Gathright 

Frank A. Hunter 

Elijah T. Scott, M. D 

Susan B. Humphreys 

Ansel Williams 

George 1). Smith 

Winnie Nevens 

Mary Sims. 

James Leach 



DEPARTMENT. 

Sui^erintendent 

Steward 

Matron 

Treasurer 

, Physician 

Secretary 

Supervisor 

Boys' Night Watch 

Girls' Night Watch 

Hospital Attendant 

Engineer 



MANUAL TRAINING DEPARTMENT. 

James N. Tate Superintendent 

William H. Humphreys Cabinet-making 

George McCauley Shoe-making 

Wallace Williams Printing 

Charles Merkle Tailoring 

Louis Kuss Baking 

Rana Head Cutting and Fitting Dresses 

Emma Goff. Sewing 



TEACHERS' MEETING. 



Charles M. Grow, Jr 
Mrs. Mary M. Tate. . 
Benjamin T. Gilkey. . 



President 



Secretary 
Chaplain 



DEAF AND DUMB. 



OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETIES. 



KEER LITERARY SOCIETY. 

Bert. Bumgardner President 

J. Ernest Applegate Vice-President 

Albert VV. Ashley Secretary-Treasurer 

Andrew B. Miller Critic 

Robert Bicketts Doorkeeper 



YOUNG LADIES' LITERARY SOCIETY. 

Clara L. Waters President 

Carrie D. Scott Vice-President 

Lizzie G. Smith Secretary-Treasurer 

Maud Stevens Critic 

Rowena C. Benson Doorkeeper 

GIRLS' CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR SOCIETY. 

Nora Miller President 

Elzie Hammontree Secretary-Treasurer 

Eetella Bunn . . . ,• Doorkeeper 

Nora Miller. Lookout Committee 

BOYS' CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR SOCIETY. 

J. Ernest Applegate President 

Samuel H. Dungan Vice-President 

Oliver L. Morris Secretary-Treasurer 

John Manson Doorkeeper 



SOCIETY OF KING'S DAUGHTERS. 

Dosia A. Grimmett President 

Rowena C. Benson Vice-President 

Rosetta E. Morgans Secretary 

Irena Yeager Treasurer 

Cora Withers Doorkeeper 



MISSOURI ASSOCIATION OF THE DEAF. 



Henry Gross, Fulton President 

Dosia A. Grimmett, Fulton Vice-President 

Stephen Shuey, Fulton Secretarj' 

Charles L. Minor, Independence Treasurer 

Peter A. Wear, Kansas City Sergeant-at-arms 











THIS WORK WAS EXECUTED 
BY TWO PUPILS, 

Andrew B. Miller and Bert Bumgardner, 

UNDER THE DIRECTION OF 

Henry Gross. 











COLUMBIAN HISTORY 




ESTABLISHED IN 1 852, 

DELA VAN, W 1 S. 



I 



4 



OFFICERS AND TEACHERS 

OF THE 

WisGopiii School for tl|e Deaf, 

JANUARY 1st, 1893. 



MEMBERS OF THE STATE BOARD OF CONTROL. 

Clarence Snyder, President, Ashland. 
J. E. Jones, Portage. J. L. Cleary, Kenoslia. 

Charles D. Parker, River Falls. W. H. Oliver, Waupun. 
W. H. Gr^ebner, Milwaukee. 



RESIDENT OFFICERS. 

John W. Swiler, M. A., - Superintendent and Steward 

C. M. Tallman, - - - - Assistant Steward 

Mrs. M. H. Schilling, .... Matron 

Matilda Cannan, .... Assistant Matron 

Joseph Wachuta, - . . . Boys' Supervisor 



LITERARY DEPARTMENT. 
teachers. 

\V. Robinson, M. A. E. E. Clippinger, M. A. W. F. Gray. 
J. S. Long, A. B. J. J. Murphy, A. B. E. G. Phoenix. 

Eleanor McCoy. Agnes Steinke. Thos. Hagerty. 



ORAL DEPARTMENT. 
Emily Eddy. Elsie M. Steinke. Almira I. Hobart. 

Clara Maklem. Iva C. Pearce, B. S. 



ART DEPARTMENT. 
Jene Bowman. 

GYMNASTICS. 
J. S. Long. E. Florence Long. 



IND USTRIA L DEPA R TMENT. 

Foreman of Printing Office, W. T. Passage. 

Foreman of Shoe Shop, Jno. Beamsley. 

Foreman of Cabinet Shop, H. Stone. 

Foreman of Bakery, Gus Hilkmann. 



Wisconsin School for the Deaf. 



The Wisconsin School for the Deaf is in Delavan, Wal- 
worth County, a town of 2,200 inhabitants, on the Racine ik 
Southwestern division of the C, M. & St. P. R. R., which, 
with its wide streets, well-kept lawns and tasty residences, 
justly claims to be one of the most attractive towns in the 
state, and with Delavan Lake, which is two and a half miles 
fi'om the town, is one of the most popular summer resorts in 
the Northwest. 

The institution is delightfully situated on an elevation 
overlooking the town and the surrounding country, and the 
beauty and desirability of its location can hardly be sur- 
passed. The grounds include about forty acres. The build- 
ings are artistically constructed and are supplied with all the 
modern improvements, such as electric lighting, steam heat- 
ing, and water for fire and domestic purposes. The institu- 
tion embraces two departments — the educational and the 
industrial. The educational department comprises a school 
course covering about ten years, whose curriculum cor- 
responds to that in our public schools. The system of in- 
struction in the school is the Combined System, which in- 
cludes the manual and the oral methods. The manual 
method is the teaching by use of signs, of the manual alphabet 
and by Avriting. The oral or articulation method is the 
teaching by speech. Each pupil is taught by that method 
which is best suited to the pupil. The manual method has 
been employed ever since the organization of the school. 
The oral method was begun in this institution as soon as, if 
not prior to, any institution in the West. Miss Emily Eddy 
has been articulation teacher in the school since 1868. For 
the last eight years there have been three articulation classes, 
each class having a separate teacher. The plan in these 



6 



classes is to have exclusively oral recitations. Pupils are not 
only taught articulation, liut they are taught by articulation. 
Graduates from this school are qualified to enter the intro- 
ductory class of the Deaf-Mute College at Washington, D. C. 

In the industrial department four trades are taught — • 
cabinet-making, shoemaking, printing and leaking. Each 
shop is under the direct supervision of a skilled foreman and 
pupils leaving the institution are thus enabled to earn a 
sufficient livelihood. The law provides that all deaf and 
dumb residents of the state, between the ages of eight and 
twenty-five years, of suitable capacity, shall be received and 
taught — free of charge for board and tuition, parents and 
guardians being expected to furnish clothing and pay traveling 
expenses. 

'l he Wisconsin School for the Deaf was incorporated by 
an act of the legislature April 19th, 1852, which declared the 
object of the school as follows : "To afford to the deaf and dumb 
of the state, so far as possible, enlightened and practical 
education, that may aid them to obtain the means of subsis- 
tence, discharge the duties of citizenship, and secure all the 
happiness which they are capable of obtaining." The incep- 
tion and establishment of this school is largely due to Ebenezer 
Cheesbro, who emigrated from New York State and settled 
two miles west of Delavan in 1839. Ariadna, the deaf daughter 
of Mr. Cheesbro, had been in school in the New York institu- 
tion, and Mr. Cheesbro was desirous of completing her educa- 
tion. In 1850 Miss Wealthy Hawes was engaged to come to 
the Cheesbro residence and teach Ariadna, together with 
James A. Dudley, a deaf boy living in the vicinity. Miss 
Hawes was a graduate of the New York institution and had 
knoAvn Ariadna in school. This acquaintance led to her in- 
stallment as a tutor of these two deaf children. In the fall 
of 1851 she was succeeded by John A. Mills, a graduate of the 
New York institution. About this time the idea of organiz- 
ing a larger school was formulated by the members of the 
Cheesbro family, and it was through their efforts that the 
school opened in the fall of 1851 with seven deaf pupils and 
John A. Mills as teaclier. This school was held at Mr. 
Cheesbro's residence for four months and was maintained at 



7 



his own expense. It was then that Mr. C'heesbro hud (h-uwn 
up, and circulated, ^a petition to the legislature asking for the 
establishment of an institute for the education of the deaf, to 
be located at or nearDelavan. Hon. C. M. Baker, assembly- 
man from Walworth' county, presented the i^etition to tlie 
legislature, and it was through his efforts that a bill was 
passed April 19th, 1852, incorporating the "Wisconsin Insti- 
tution for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb," to be located 
at Delavan, Walworth county. On the recommendation of 
Superintendent J. W. Swiler, the legislature changed the 
name of the school to the "Wisconsin School for the Deaf in 
1885. The act of incorporation named Ebenezer Cheesbro, 
William C. Allen, Franklin K. Phaniix, Henderson Hunt, 
P. W. Lake, Wyman Spooner, Jesse C. Mills, .James A. Max- 
well and George Williams as a board of trustees, having the 
general management of the school, with power to employ a 
principal ; and made an'appropriation of $3,000 for buildings, 
and $500 for the support of the school for the ensuing year . 
This board was organized in June, 1852, with Henderson 
Hunt, president ; Wyman Spooner, treasurer ; F. K. Phcenix, 
secretary; J. R. Bradway, principal. Under this administra- 
tion school was opened in July, with eight pupils, in the 
upper story of a building in the rear of the Schultz block ^ 
where it remained till the new buildings were completed. 
The pupils were at first boarded in private families, but 
their number increasing to fourteen a house was rented for 
their special use. 

In the meantime the location and erection of the new 
buildings occupied the attention of the l)oard. F. K. 
Phoenix donated a tract of eleven acres in the western jiart of 
Delavan, which is the i^resent site of the institution, and in 
his honor the grounds are called "Phoenix Green." The plan 
of the buildings consisted of a main building, 56x60, five 
stories, of brick, including basement and attic, with two trans- 
verse or lateral wings. The east wing, a two-story building 
of brick, 34 by 44, with attic and basement, Avas completed 
in January, 1854, at a cost of $2,981, and had acconnnodation 
for thirty-five pupils. The school moved into their new 
quarters the following month. The main building was 



8 



iinif^hed in 1857 ;it ;i cost of $30,000. 7\.mong other improve- 
ments made that year was the construction of a workshop, 
24x48, two-stories in height, at a cost of $1,500, together with 
a large barn. 

Principal Brad way had been succeeded by Lucius Foote, 
and lie in turn by Horatio N. Hubbell. At the time of the 
opening of the new building, Louis H. Jenkins was principal. 
He Avas a man of experience in deaf-mute education and con- 
tributed largely to the auspicious opening of the school. 

To Professor Warren Robinson Ave are indebted for the 
following extract from his history of the school. "In 1856 
Mr. .Jenkins was succeeded by J. S. Officer, under Avhoseable 
management the institution made a decidedly forward move. 
Though previously advocated by Mr. Jenkins, industrial edu- 
cation Avas not begun until Mr. Officer's term, in the form of 
cabinet-making. This Avas a Avise step, for too much can 
hardly be said in faA'or of manual training, especially in the 
case of the deaf. 

During the session of 1857-58 a law was passed by the 
legislature requiring pupils who were sent to the Deaf and 
Dumb or Blind institutions to pay $75 per annum unless 
parents could make oath before an officer that they Avere un- 
able to pay that amount ; and a similar one in 1867 ; but 
they operated so disastrously on the prosperity of those in- 
.stitutions that they Avere 1 )oth repealed soon after their passage. 
The period of the civil Avar Avas a time of considerable pecu- 
niary embarrassment to the institute, and teachers worked on 
reduced salaries. Mr. Officer died in office in 1864 and his 
place Avas filled b\' Mr. H. W. Milligan, Avhose administration 
Avas signalized l)y the introduction of steam-heating, gas- 
lighting, and the opening of a shoe-shop. The next tAvo 
princif)als to take charge of the institute, betAveen the years 
1869 and 1875, were E. C. Stone and George L. Weed, both 
men of experience and ability. In 1875 Dr. William H. De 
Motte Avas elected superintendent. The following events 
marked his term of office : The erection of a small Avooden 
building for a gymnasium ; the opening of a basket-shop in a 
part of the cabinet shop ; the introduction of printing and the 
starting of a pa[)er, the "Deaf Mute Press," in 1878; the 



9 



giving of elementary instruction in drawing for a few months ; 
the erection and fitting up of a building for a kitchen and 
laundry ; and the destruction of the old institute by fire on 
September 16th, 1879. No clue as to the origin of the fire 
has ever yet been obtained. The building was a total loss to 
the state, as it was not covered by insurance. In spite of the 
great inconvenience caused by this most unexpected calamity 
the work of the school was not suspended. The shoe-shop 
was immediately converted into a dormitory for the boys, 
while the lady teachers and girls were taken in by private 
families on the hill and down town. In the meantime the 
school work was carried on mostly in the Methodist church in 
the village, until the carpenter-shop was divided up into 




OLD BUILDING — DESTROYED BY FIEE SEPT. 16, 18/9. 

school-rooms, and a small office for the principal and 
steward. After the fire the public press began seriously to 
discuss the advisability of moving the institution to some 
other place, but nothing came of it. Plans for new buildings 
were adopted and, an appropriation of $65,000 having been 
secured, their erection was commenced in the spring of 1880." 

The new buildings were constructed on the cottage or 
segregate plan. The main building is a three-story white 
brick structure, with attic, and solid stone basement, 50x100. 
A wide corridor runs the entire length of the first floor, which 
contains a reception-room, parlor, office, matron's room and 
and a suite of rooms occupied by the superintendent. On 
the second floor is a large, well-lighted study-room used by 
the girls, and the rooms occupied by the lady teachers living 



10 



in the institution. On the third floor are the girls' sleeping 
and toilet-rooms. The attic is used as a gymnasium for girls. 
In the rear of the main building is a two-story brick exten- 
sion, 45x75, which contains a chapel, with seating capacity 
for 300 persons. 

The chapel has a large platform supplied Avith a full 
complement of stage settings and drop curtains which aid 
materially in the giving of institution entertainments. In 
the basement of the building are the dining-hall and kitchen. 
About 100 yards east of the main building stands the school 
building, a solid, white brick and stone structure, two stories 
in height, with basement, 66x122. It has two main entrances, 
one for the boys and one for the girls. A Avide corridor runs 
the entire length of the building on each floor. The school- 
rooms, 20x26, are all supplied with closets and cloak-rooms, 
and are so arranged that each room has the benefit of sunlight 
during some portion of the day. The building is well fur- 
nished with the best school apparatus, and has ample accom- 
modations in the way of heat and ventilation. Thirty yards 
west of the main building is the boys' dormitory, a two-story 
white-brick structure, with stone basement, 66x122, which 
contains besides the dormitories, lavatories and study-rooms. 
In the rear of the main building stands the new engine house, 
which was erected in 1885. The building is two stories in 
height, with a smokestack 107 feet high. The building is 
equipped with a Rice automatic slide-valve engine, which runs 
an Edison dynamo that furnishes the electric light for all the 
institution buildings and grounds. A storage battery is used 
to supply the light during the latter part of the night. The 
building is also furnished with a Knowles pump for fire 
purposes ; two smaller pumps for filling boilers and an eight- 
horse i^ower engine for driving the machinery. In the boiler- 
room are three large tubular boilers, five feet in diameter by 
sixteen feet in length, for generating steam used in the heat- 
ing of the buildings, which is done by the gravity return sys- 
tem, and another boiler, 3x11, for running the dynamo en- 
gine and for heating water. On the second floor is the 
laundry, which is supplied with reversible, hydraulic 
washers, a Weston centrifugal wringer and a ternary mangle. 



11 



Other buildings contain the printing office, which is supplied 
with a Prouty power press, jobber and cutter ; a cabinet- 
shop, a shoe-shop, a finely equiioped gymnasium, bath and 
swimming pool, play-rooms and hospital. 

The present Superintendent, J. W. Swiler, took charge of 
the institution in July, 1880. During his administi'ation the 
new buildings have been constructed, the various dejoart- 
ments of the institution enlarged and developed, and to-day 
the institution enjoys the reputation of being one of the best 
equipped and best managed schools in the country. That 
Mr. Swiler is a man well qualified for the position he holds is 
universally admitted, and further attested by the fact that he 
is retained notwithstanding political changes in tlie adminis- 




NEW BUILDINGS — ERECTED IX 1880. 

tration of the state. The following mention is taken fi'om 
Professor Robinson's history of the institution : " The 
present Superintendent, John W. Swiler, was born in Cum- 
berland county, Pennsylvania, in 1844. In 1852 his parents 
removed to Monmouth, Illinois, and in the course of time he 
entered the college at that place and graduated in 1864, after 
which he engaged in the book trade for two years. In 1867 
he went to Jacksonville, Illinois, where he was appointed as 
a teacher in the state institution there. His stay in Jackson- 
ville covered thirteen years, during which time he constantly 
rose to prominence as a man well fitted to educate and 
govern. Endowed with great practical and executive ability. 



12 



as well as good judgment, he seems to have found his proper 
place in the profession. His experience grows rapidly with 
his years. His appearance indicates energy, decision, and 
firmness. His use of the sign language is characterized by 
perspicuity, and his utterances are fraught with the useful 
and practical. Since he came here he has steadily grown in 
the esteem of those in his charge, no less for his managing 
skill than for the faithful care, consideration and respect he 
ever evinces for them. And in closing it does not seem too 
much to say that his management has had a tendency to de- 
velop the present material and mental resources of the school 
to a degree never surpassed." Superintendent Swiler is a 
member of the Wisconsin State Educational Committee, and 
also of the committee of that section of the World's Fair Con- 
gress Auxiliary devoted to deaf-mute instruction, of which Dr. 
P. G. Gillett is chairman. He is a man of progressive ideas, 
and during his administration the school has attained a high 
rank among the institutions of the country. In 1885 the in- 
stitution received a diploma from the Cotton Centennial Ex- 
position at New Orleans for pupils' work. Very flattering 
exhibits of school work were made at the Teachers' National 
Convention at Madison in 1884, also at Chicago in 1886, and 
at the Milwaukee Industrial Exposition at several times. 

The institution was under the general management of a 
Board of Trustees from its establishment till 1881, when, with 
all other charitable, penal and reformatory institutions in the 
state, it passed under the control of a State Board of Super- 
vision, consisting of George W. Burchard, president ; Charles 
Luling, James Bintliff", C. D. Parker and L. A. Proctor. The 
outgoing board of trustees consisted of S. R. LaBar, D. G. 
Cheever, Hollis Latham, E. D. Holton, and Albert Salisbury. 
Dr. A. L. Chapin, the late president of Beloit college, resigned 
in 1880. He was for many years the president of this Board, 
and, having once been a teacher of the deaf, was at all times 
the ardent supporter and warm friend of the institution, and 
is held in sacred memory by all deaf-mutes and all friends of 
deaf-mute instruction in the State of Wisconsin. The Board 
of Supervision remained in office for ten years and during its 
administration of affairs the public institutions of the state 



13 



enjoyed a ijeriod of unprecedented growth and development. 
In 1891 this Board was succeeded hy the State Board of Con- 
trol, which at present consists of Clarence Snyder of Ashland, 
jDresident ; Charles D. Parker, of River Falls ; J. E. Jones, ot 
Portage ; J. L. Cleary, of Kenosha ; W. H. Graehner, of Mil- 
waukee, and J. W. Oliver, of Waupun. 

The resident officers have been the following persons : — 

SUPERIXTEXDENTS. 

J. R. Brad way 1852-185:! 

Horatio N. Hubbell 1853-1854 

Louis H. Jenkins 1854-185(j 

J. Scott Officer 1856-1865 

W. H. Milligan 1865-1868 

Edward C. Stone 1868-1871 

George L. Weed 1871-1875 

W. H. De Motte 1875-1880 

J. W. Swiler 1880 

MATROXS. 

Mrs. Adelia F. Jenkins 1854-1856 

Mrs. M. Marshall 1856-1857 

Miss Orpha S. Taylor 1857-1862 

Miss M. J. Adams 1862-1869 

Miss Alice F. Cornell 1869-1871 

Mrs. Liithera J.Hill 1871-187(i 

Mrs. W. H. Bishop 1876-1877 

Mrs. A. Broadrup 1877-1880 

Mrs. Julia A. Taylor 1880-1884 

Mrs. H. C. Swiler 1884-1885 

Miss S. D. Gibson 1885-189] 

Mrs. M. H. Schilling 1891 

NAMES OF TEACHERS 

AT THE WISCOXSIX SCHOOL FOE THE DEAF, SIXCE ri'S ORGAXIZATIOX 

IX 1852. 

Joh.n A. Mills 1852-1855 

Hiram Phillips 1854-1878 and 1S,S1-1882 

Zachariah McCoy 1855-188;J 

John A. McWhorter 1856-1870 

Lucius Eddy 1859-1868 and 1870-1 S74 

W. A. Cochrane 1867-1871 and 1875-1892 

G. F. Schilling 1868-188:! 

Ezra G. Valentine 1869-1873 

J. Northrop 1870-1871 



14 



C. L. WilJiams 1871-1877 

Mary Johnson 1871-1874 

Philip L. Engelhardt 1872-1873 

Mary E. Smith 1873-1883 

Thomas Clithero 1874-1875 

Imogene Tilden 1876-1878 

Cora E. Carver 1876-1878 

Isabella Kimball 1877-1878 and 1881-1882 

Rosetta Ritsher 1878-1883 and 1884-1886 

Mary H. Hunter 1879-1892 

W. J. Fuller 1878-1883 

Kate DeMotte 1879-1881 . 

Helen E. Briggs 1882-1884 

Harry Reed 1883-1886 

Mary E. Griffin 1884-1885 

Mary Jameson 1884-1887 

Harriet C. Swiler 1883-1884 

Alice E. Turley 1883-1887 

Alice Christie 1885-1888 

B. T-. Bensted 1885-1892 

Anne M. Gray 1887-1891 

Eva L. Cutler 1887-1892 

Clara Waite 1883-1884 

A. I. Farrant 1883-1884 

Mary H. Schilling 1888-1889 

James L. Smith 1883-1884 

Ruth E. Swiler 1890-1891 

The following teachers are still at the school in 1893, and have 
been in service since the dates set opposite their names : 

Emily Eddy 1857 

Eleanor McCoy 1874 

Almira I. Hobart 1884-1885 and 1886 

Elsie M. Steinke 1886 

Warren Robinson 1884 

James J. Murphy 1884-1889 and 1892 

Elizabeth G. (Bright) Phaniix 1884-1891 and 1892 

W. F. Gray 1887 

Iva C. Pearce 1888 

Thomas Hagerty ....1891 

Agnes Steinke 1891 

J. S. Long 1890 

E. F. Long 1891 

Jene Bowman 1892 

Edward E. Clippinger 1883-1885 and 1892 

Of the officers and teachers now employed in the institu- 
tion, the Superintendent, J. W. Swiler, took charge in 1880 ;, 



15 



Mrs. M. H. Schilling, matron, in 1891 ; Charles M. Tallman, 
clerk, in 1892 ; Joseph Wauchuta, boys' supervisor, in 1891 : 
Miss Matilda Cannan in 1880 ; Miss Emily Eddy became a 
member of the teaching force in 1857; Mrs. M. H. Fiske in 
1879; Mrs. A. I. Hobart in 1884; Miss E. M. Steinke in 
1886 ; Miss I. C. Pearce in 1888 ; Miss Agnes Steinke in 
1891 ; Mrs. Eleanor G. McCoy in 1874 ; Miss Jene Bowman 
in 1892 ; Warren Robinson in 1884 ; J. J. Murphy in 1884 : 
E. E. Clippinger in 1883 ; W. F. Gray in 1887 ; J. S. Long 
in 1889 ; Thomas Hagerty in 1891. Warren Robinson, 
Thomas Hagerty and J. J. Murphy are graduates of this 
school, and J. S. Long is a graduate of the Iowa State School 
for the Deaf. 

The only death of a resident officer that is recorded 
in the annals of the school occurred February 3d, 1865, 
Avhen .J. S. Officer, who had been at the head of the 
school, as principal and steward, for eight years, was re- 
moved by death. In a tribute to the memory of Mr. Officer, 
Hon. N. M. Harrington, Secretary of the Board of Trustees, 
wrote as follows : ' ' Mr. Officer possessed a rare combination 
of qualifications for the position which he occupied. Among 
these were the following : A strong, ripe and luminous 
Christian character, a Christianity which infused its ennobling 
and benign spirit into all his life ; great executive ability 
and untiring industry ; unswerving integrity and scrupulous 
exactness in the details of business ; a marked suavity and 
kindness clothing a deportment of unusual dignity ; a cease- 
less watchfulness for the well-being of those committed to 
his care ; system and order reigned wherever he had con- 
trol. In the use of the sign language he was a master."' 
In this connection it seems proper to state that in 1883 
the institution sustained a serious loss in the death of 
Professor Z. G. McCoy, who had labored diligentl}^, with an 
unswerving devotion to duty, and an untiring interest in all 
that concerned the members of this institution during almost 
its entire history, his connection with the institution dating 
from November, 1855. In Superintendent Swiler's report to 
the State Board of Supervision, we find the following 
mention : "Z. G. McCoy was born at Fort Edwards, New 
York, November 1st, 1829. He was appointed teacher in 



16 



this school soon after graduating from the Ncaa' York institu- 
tion. He came to his work with the highest recommenda- 
tions and during his subsequent course he developed a higher 
scliolarship and a more loving Christian character than even 
his most sanguine friends had expected. During the years 
that have passed and through all the changes that have 
transpired in this institution, Zachariah G. McCoy remained 
steadfastly at his post, laboring earnestly for those he loved. 
No one but a teacher can realize how much of devotion, self- 
sacrifice, and hard Avork was required by the opportunities of 
those twenty-eight long years, and no one but the 'Infinite 
One' can know how much good work was done by this faith- 
ful servant, in unveiling so many beclouded minds." 

In the industrial department John Beamsley has been at 
the head of the shoe-shop since 1882 ; W. T. Passage, foreman 
of the printing office since 1891 ; and Hollis Stone took 
charge of the carpenter-shop in 1892. 

Nine hundred and twenty pupils have had instruction in 
the school since 1852 ; of this number 105 took the full course 
and graduated prior to 1880 ; since that time 89 have 
graduated; making a total of 194 graduates. ' Of this number 
20 have entered the National College for the Deaf at Wash- 
ington. There are at present 180 pupils in the school. Ac- 
cording to the Eleventh Census there are 1,333 deaf and 
dumb in Wisconsin — 793 males and 540 females, or one deaf 
person to every 1,265 inhabitants. Of these 743 are beyond 
the school age ; 153 under school age and 437 between the 
ages of eight and twenty. As there are now about 275 chil- 
dren in the schools for the deaf in Wisconsin, it leaves 162 
deaf children of school age not under instruction. 

An Alumni Association was organized in 1876. Lars M. 
Larson, a graduate of this school and the founder and present 
superintendent of the school for the deaf at Santa Fe, New 
Mexico, was the founder of this association, and for several 
years its president. The association has held triennial re- 
unions since then, and at present has a membershijD of aliout 
one hundred alumni. 

In connection with the school are two literar}' societies. 

The Ariadna Society, named in honor of Ariadna 



17 



Cheesbro, was organized in 1889 by Miss Linnie Bailey, a 
graduate of 1890. It includes in its membership the girls of 
the highest four classes and meets once a week. The Phoenix 
Literary Society, including Rkewise the elder boys of the 
school, was organized in 1884, though it existed two years 
l)rior thereto as the Badger Literary Society. It meets for 
debate and other literary exercises every Saturday evening 
and is well maintained from year to year. 

The Art Department gives half-hour daily instruction in 
writing and drawing to each of the classes in school. In ad- 
dition to this, select classes are given higher instruction in the 
studio. This department has grown since 1881, when regular 
instruction in writing and drawing was begun, until the 
whole school feels its influence and many have come to a 
higher ai^i^reciation of the possibilities of lile. 

The Department of Physical Culture with competent in- 
structors and well-equipped gymnasia for the boys and the 
girls is doing a great work of development for many, wIkj in 
addition to deafness would display other defects of form or 
feature were it not for a systematic course of calisthenics, 
which straightens, broadens, and makes more supple and 
graceful boys and girls, who lack only proper training to 
make them perfect specimens of manhood and womanhood. 

The Wisconsin Times is a weekly, eight-page pajjer de- 
voted to the interests of institution affairs and deaf-mute in- 
struction in general. Prior to 1881 it was published 
irregularly under the name of the Deaf-Mute Press, at which 
time it was changed to its present name, made a regular 
weekly publication, and enlarged to its present size. The 
paper is printed and partly edited by the pupils of the school. 
Its editorials on leading topics pertaining to the education of 
the deaf, its spicy locals on life in the institution and its 
general matter of valuable information reflect a great deal of 
credit on its editor and on the institution, and its extensive 
exchange list attests its popularity with not only other 
institutions but also the press of the state. 

In concluding it seems but justice to add that the present 
efficiency and prosperity of the school is largely due to the 
superior management of the state board, to the adminis- 



18 



tration of its Superintendent, J. W. Swiler, and to 
his sagacity in selecting and retaining an efficient official 
corps of instruction. Since he assumed control, in 1880, the 
school has from time to time exffended its course of instruction 
and organized new branches of study and work as fast as 
necessity required or ability permitted. The sterling worth 
of his character has been reflected on the lives of all children 
under his care, and the example of his life and the precepts of 
his moral and religious teaching are embodied in the high 
character of the men and women who have gone out from this 
institution. There are no deaf beggars and no deaf criminals 
in Wisconsin. Those who might have otherwise become a 
burden to society are found in the useful walks of life, most 
of them discharging all the duties of intelligent citizenship, sup- 
porting themselves and families, and in many cases occupy- 
ing leading positions in the social and industrial pursuits of 
the communities in which they live. This brief historical 
sketch is onlj' an outline of the course of events at the Wis- 
consin School for the Deaf, the records are replete with sug- 
gestive facts and incidents for the complete history of the 
school, which is yet to be written. 



19 

APPENDIX. 

4 



TABLE I. 

CAUSES OF DEAFNESS. 



Pupils Admitted During the Term of 


Total Number 
in School In 




1880 


1880-82 


1884-86 


1886-88 


1888-90 


188K-84 


Congenital 

Spinal Meningitis 

Scarlet Fever 

Inflammation ot'Brain 


5 
10 
7 
5 
1 
8 


21 
11 
4 


20 
16 
8 


33 
16 
6 


19 
10 

6 


81 
59 
29 


2 
>) 
11 
4 

2 
2 




2 




4 


Unknown 


3 

>> 

1 
1 




Cerebral Meningitis... 
Tvnlinifl 




3 


6 
1 


28 
17 




T 




Abscess ' 




2 






1 1 


2 
1 
1 
1 
1 
1 












1 


1 














1 


2 


Fits 1 




2 




Fall 1 












1 










1 
1 
1 
1 






1 






















1 1 3 





TABLE II. 

PARENTAGE. 



Pupils Admitted During the Term ok 



American... 

Oerman 

English 

Irish 

Welsh 

Norwegian 

Polish 

Swedish 

Belgian 

Hollander.. 

French 

Dutch 

Swiss 

Scotch 

Canadian ... 
Bohemian.. 

Danish 

Russian 

Prussian 

Negro 



14 


15 


11 


24 


2 


3 


3 


9 


2 




3 


5 


1 









1880 1880-82 1884-86 1886-88 1888-90 



14 
14 
6 
7 



14 
20 
2 

7 
1 
8 
6 

9 



14 
9 
2 

4 

2 

1 
o 



Total Number 
In School in 



1883-84 



70 

86 
11 
26 
3 
15 
2 
2 

9 



20 

TABLE III. 

AGE AT WHICH IIEARIXCi WAS LOST. 



Pupils Admitted During the Term of 



Age. 



1 vear. 

2 ' 

4 

5 
6 



8 

9 
10 
11 
12 

Unknown... 
Congenital.. 



1880 1880-82 1884-86 1886-88 1888-90 



17 

15 
5 



Total Number 
in School in 



10 
8 
S 
4 



2 
'20 



14 
5 
2 
2 

o 



(3 
12 
0 
4 
1 
1 
1 



33 



1!) 



1884 



49 
29 
27 
10 
8 
7 
4 
4 
5 



81 



TABLE IV. 

AGE OF PUPILS AT DATE OF ADMISSION. 



•Auge. 



1882-84 



1884-86 



1886-88 



6 vear s 



1 

4 
(i 
12 
13 
7 
o 
o 



4 
12 
13 

(? 
4 
7 
5 
1 
3 
3 



Note. — The above tables are compiled from Superintendent 
Swiler's Reports. 



THE LOUISIANA SCHOOL 

FOE 

THE DEAF, 



BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA, 



1852-1893. 



By H. LORRAINE TRACY, B. A. 
Instructor in the School. 



THE LOUISIANA SCHOOL FOR THE DEAF. 



Until 1852 the deaf children of Louisiana were sent to the 
Kentucky Institution at Danville, at the expense of the State. 

By an act of the legislature, approved March 18, 1852, the 
board of managers " purchased the property heretofore known 
as the 'Baton Rouge College,' together with three other 
squares of ground lying immediately back of, or east of, said 
property, with the exception of three lots, for the price and 
sum of six thousand three hundred and ninety-five dollars 
($6,395). The price paid for the same, we are happy to say, is 
extremely reasonable, and the location, at the lower end of the 
corporation, jjossessing a beautiful and commanding view of 
the river, renders it, in the opinion of the board, for such an in- 
stitution, one of the most desirable in the city of Baton 
Rouge." Thus ran the first words in the first annual report 
of the administrators. 

The members of the first board were Gen. Josej^h Bernard, 
president ; William S. Pike, secretary and treasurer ; Dr. B. F. 
Harney, Col. Nolan Stewart, Major James N. Brown, Dr. 
Thomas J. Buffington, and Major Augustin Duplantier. Of 
these, only one. Dr. T. J. Buffington, is alive. 

Mr. James S. Brown, M. A., a gentleman eminently qualified, 
and who was then the superintendent of the Indiana School, 
was appointed to guide the infant days of this institute. 

Thirteen pupils were the first record in attendance on the 
8th of December, 1852. 

From this year the preparatory arrangements, as well as the 
progress of the School, went along smoothly, the board of ad- 
ministrators and all connected with the School showing the 
highest enthusiasm. At the outset Superintendent Brown 
maintained the advantage of having the deaf and the blind to- 
gether, affirming that the former in their intercourse with the 
latter improve themselves in the general use of language — the 
most important part of their education. 

Mr. Martin M. Hanson, a deaf-mute, was Mr. Brown's first 
assistant. 

The first appropriation made by the legislature was the 
sum of $25,000, and until " the late unpleasantness " it con- 
tinued to appropriate that liberal sum yearly. 



4 



The Louisiana School. 



" A comniencement, however humble, has now been made of 
an institution destined to pour incalculable blessings upon two 
of the most unfortunate classes whose helpless lot can demand 
human sympathy. It is to the credit of American statesmen 
that it can be said that such an enterprise has never been 
commenced, where a State legislature could be made aware 
of its benefits, and failed. Located, as this institution is, under 
the immediate observation of the legislature and State author- 
ities, we may not — cannot — fear the result. Under such auspices 
we may well entertain the hope that a monument of the judi- 
cious liberality of the State will here be reared which shall 
tell to generations of men yet to inhabit the beautiful cities, 
the fertile fields and spreading savannas of Louisiana that her 
legislators in this our day had hearts to feel for human woe, 
and hands ready to lighten the crushing load of misfortune 
which weighs down the sorrow-stricken blind and deaf and 
dumb." These were the last words in Superintendent Brown's 
first annual report. 

For the erection of the stately buildings that now stand as 
beautiful and useful ornaments to our State $350,000 was 
at different times appropriated. 

Slowly but steadily did the School grow. 

In 1860 Mr. Brown was removed, and the entire corps of 
instructors, of whom Dr. J. L. Noyes, now the efficient super- 
intendent of the Minnesota School, was one, resigned. For a 
time the School was paralyzed. Mr. A. K. Martin, then the 
head of the Mississippi School, was appointed in his place. 

At the commencement of the war the number of pupils was 
77. During the struggle the list dwindled down to 25 or 30. 

For several months the School was left to its own resources and all 
were supported by the proceeds of cakes, etc., made, in part, by the 
girls, and sold by the little boys, and by the sale of vegetables from the 
garden, and by means advanced by benevolent individuals. When these 
resources failed, rations were received from the Federal authorities, 
which were continued until 1866, when they evacuated our buildings, 
the larger portion of which they had been using since January, 1863, for 
hospital purposes. The legislature of 1865 made an appropriation of 
$18,000 for the benefit of the institute, but owing to the depleted condi- 
tion of the treasury very little of it could be drawn, and the institution 
continued in a crippled, discouraging state. In the succeeding year more 
life and spirit was breathed into our affairs, and since that period the 
institution has been steadily going forward in its benevolent mission. 

— A. K. Maktin. 

In 1867 arrangements were made with the board of trustees 



The Louisiana School. 



5 



of the Mississippi School, Drs. Poindexter and Cabaniss, and 
Judge Potter, to have the pupils of that State in our school, 
their building having been biirned down. The legislature of 
that State agreed to pay $250 a year per pujjil. 

In 1869 the board of administrators, with J. A. McWhorter 
as superintendent, yielding to the recommendation of Gov. 
H. C. Warmoth, gave half of the buildings for the use of the 
State Seminary and Military Academy. With the growth of 
these latter institutions the buildings became crowded. The 
blind were removed to other quarters in 1871, and this resulted 
in the provision for them by law of a separate institution. 
This removal of the blind only paved the " way for forcing an 
excusable removal of the deaf, and finally resulted in the 
ostensibly temporary occupation by the State University of 
our buildings, j^lanned and erected for our peculiar wants, 
being made permanent." In speaking about this impolitic as 
well as ungenerous course, Supt. McWhorter says : 

Education is inestimably more valuable to the deaf-mute than it can 
possibly be to any other class, and should be considered in the light of 
public necessity — as much as justice to the innocent or food to the 
starving. Besides, they cling to this building with the affection that 
surrounds a home, and as the spot where the sweet light of intelligence 
and culture first broke in upon and quickened a benighted intellect, 
bringing joy and elevation that could be found nowhere else. 

The deaf were removed to the structure known as the 
" Herman Building," almost in the heart of the city, in the 
summer of 1879. Tbis dingy old building soon became over- 
crowded. Small frame cottages were erected around it, and 
were used as boys' dormitories. They remained in this un- 
comfortable condition until 1887. During all this time the 
board of trustees were keeping an eye on the buildings origi- 
nally erected for the deaf, and endeavoring to repossess them. 
They were finally rewarded in 1887, when the University was 
removed to the United States garrison. Governor S. D. Mc- 
Enery ordered the institution restored to its original buildings 
in the summer of that year. This was according to a section 
of an act passed by the general assembly of 1871, which read 
as follows : 

That the board of trustees shall have power to procure by lease or 
purchase a suitable building or buildings and grounds for all the neces- 
sary purposes of said institution, and as soon as this may be done they 
shall grant the temporary use of the buildings and grounds now occupied 
and held by said institution to the Louisiana State University until said 
University be otherwise provided for. 



6 



The Louisiana Sc/iooL 



The two institutes, one for the deaf and the other for the 
bhnd, which had for nearly twenty years been supported as in- 
dependent institutions, were by the legislature of 1888 com- 
bined under one management. A proviso was, however, 
added to the act by which the two were combined for restor- 
ing, on a specified condition, the separate organization of the 
^' School and Industrial Home for the Blind." That condition 
was met by the purchase of a property and the erection of a 
building at an outlay of $30,000, without cost to the State. 

The great storm of the 19th and 20th of August, 1888, did 
great damage to our buildings. Eight thousand dollars were 
borrowed from the Louisiana National Bank and the Canal 
Bank of New Orleans. The board of trustees pledged the 
sum of $5,400 in warrants, which had been appropriated by 
the legislature for repairs. 




JOHN JASTKEMSKI, M. D. 



Our i^resent superintendent, Dr. John Jastremski, took the 
reins in 1884, and since then our School has been steadily in- 
creasing its breadth of usefulness. The corj^s of instructors 
has been increased, and the classes better organized. But the 
best work so far accomplished has been in the organization of 



The Louisiana School. 



7 



the Industrial Department. With more Hberal means at hand 
all departments will be thoroughly organized. 

In 1854, as a compliment due to the founder of this insti- 
tution, the trustees ordered of Mr. Moise a large portrait of 
Mr. Richardson to be hung in the reception-room. It was the 
exhibition of this portrait that called forth the following re- 
marks : 

On the 18th of March, 1852, Gov. Walker approved and signed a bill 
appropriating .|!25,000 for establishing a deaf and dumb institute at Baton 
Kouge. This bill originated -with the Hon. F. D. Richardson, by whose 
influence, popularity, and pure intentions, united with industry and elo- 
quence, he was enabled to triumph over his opponents and pass the bill 
by a large majority. The building never fails to attract the attention of 
every traveller that passes the capitol, and in its unadorned beauty 
towers with simple grandeur over the laborious details that deck the 
Gothic structure of our state-house. 

Ninety-three gentlemen have been members of the board of 
trustees since its foundation. 

The School has had six superintendents and 25 teachers and 
8 matrons. 

The present officers are as follows : 

Board of IVustees. 
Gov. Murphy J. Foster, . . . ex-officio, President. 
Anthony Doherty, . . Vice-President, Baton Rouge. 
John Johnson, ...... Baton Rouge. 

Alvan E. Read, ...... Baton Rouge. 

Thomas C. Abbott, ..... Baton Rouge. 

T. H. Duff, ...... Baton Rouge. 

Officers. 

John Jastremski, M. D., . . -. . Superintendent. 
W. H. Reynaud, ...... Treasurer. 

Dr. B. Duchein, ...... Physician. 

Mrs. Mary Pope, ....... Matron. 

Miss Sarah Hereford, . . . Girls'' Supervisor. 
UsiLER McArtor, ..... Boys' Supervisor. 

Teachers. 

When Appointed. 

James Goodwin, ....... 1860. 

(Left in 1867 and was reappointed in 1884.) 

H. Lorraine Tracy, B. A., ...... 1891. 

Miss Nellie Cornay, ...... 1883. 

Miss L. Lee Woods, 1883. 

Miss Edith S. Rambo, teacher of articulation, . . 1886. 



8 



The JjOiiisiana School. 



Industrial Department. 
H. L. Tracy, .... Instructor in Printing. 
UsiLEE McAetoe, Foreman of Carpenter and Cabinet Shop. 
Feank a. Dobson, . . . Foreman of Shoe-Shop. 

Miss Saeah Hereford, . . Instructress in Sevnng. 

Chronological List of Superintendents. 

When Appointed. 

James S. Beown, M. A., 1852. 

Adolphus K. Maetin, . . . . . . 1860. 

John A. McWhortee, M. A., . . . . . 1869. 

John Preston, ....... 1877. 

Adolphus K. Maetin (reappointed), .... 1881. 

R. G. Feeguson, 1883. 

John Jasteemski, M. D., ...... 1884. 

Chronological List of Fuhlications. 
Reports, 1853-1892. 

The Deaf-Mute Pelican commenced publication in 1860, 
but no files were kept until 1890. 



The Mississippi Institution for the 
Education of the Deaf 
and Dumb, 

JACKSON, MISSISSIPPI, 
1854-1893. 



By J. R. DOBYNS, M. A. 

Siipt. of the Iiist itution. 



I 



THE MISSISSIPPI INSTITUTION FOR THE EDUCA- 
TION OF THE DEAF AND DUMB. 

The first mention of the deaf that has been found in any of 
the State records is in the message of Governor A. Gr. McNut, 
sent to the legislature January 5, 1841. 

In giving some statistics he says : " There were in the State 
on June 1, 1840, free white persons deaf and dumb, 69 ; col- 
ored persons deaf and dumb and blind, 118." 

It does not appear that he made any recommendation look- 
ing to the establishment of an institution for their education, 
or that any member of the legislature introduced a bill to 
that end. 

No reference has been found to this subject from that date 
till the meeting of the legislature in 1852, when Governor 
James Whitfield made the following recommendation, viz : 

One other institution of a kindred character [referring to the Luna- 
tie Asyhim and Institution for the Blind] is still wanted to complete the 
list of noble charities so characteristic of Southern generosity; I refer to 
the asylum for the deaf and dumb. 

The poor mute who is permitted to gaze upon the beauties of nature, 
but whose ears are forever closed to the sweet melody Providence has 
ordained to gladden the human heart, and whose tongue has never 
learned to hold social converse with his fellow-creatures or even unite in 
jiraises to the Most High, is a subject to claim our most anxious solici- 
tude and prompt us to some action to ameliorate his condition, whilst 
he can only be taught to appreciate the bounties of Providence and 
the scheme of redemption by teaching him to read. Let us not with- 
hold from him this exalted privilege so fraught with happiness to all 
who enjoy its benefits ; and whilst he can only converse with his 
fellow-creatures and enjoy that social intercourse so necessary to the 
happiness of all by learning to write, let us do something towards un- 
stopping the ears of the deaf and making the dumb to sjseak through the 
medium of the pen. 

I would, therefore, recommend that a small appropriation be made, 
similar to the one made for the benefit of the blind, in order to employ a 
teacher or teachers and found a school for the benefit of this class of 
our people, which may be changed or enlarged as circumstances may 
hereafter require. And with this additional institution the people of 
Mississippi may justly feel that they have done everything that could be 
done by legislative enactment to educate the poor and ameliorate the 
condition of the suffering and afflicted. 

In view of the intimate connection between this and the Institution 
for the Blind, I respectfully suggest that the two might be blended 



4 



Tlie Mississippi Institution. 



under one general supervision, thereby lessening the expense to the 
State without detriment to either. 

This recommendation was followed by the introduction of 
a bill in the House of Representatives, at that session, by Mr. 
Jones, a representative from Pontotoc county, establishing an 
institution for the instruction of the deaf and dumb at or 
near the town of Pontotoc, in Pontotoc county. This bill 
went to its third reading in the House, when a " rider " was 
tacked to it, making the institution a department of Oakland 
College, a flourishing male college in this State at that time. 
This rider seems to have killed the bill on its final passage. 
At the session of the legislature in 1854 a similar bill was in- 
troduced in the Senate by Mr. Webb, senator from Pontotoc. 
This " bill was killed " in the house of its friends, and it seems 
the energetic representatives from Pontotoc gave up the idea 
of securing this prize. 

On Tuesday, February 7, 1854, Col. Erasmus E. Burt, a 
member of the House of Representatives, and the father of 
the Mississippi Institution for the Education of the Deaf and 
Dumb, offered the following resolution, which was adopted, 
to wit : 

Resolved, That the Committee of Education is hereby instructed to- 
inquire into the expediency of enlarging the buildings of the Blind In- 
stitute so as to furnish apartments for the education of the deaf and 
dumb, and report by bill or otherwise. 

Col. Burt was a prominent and influential member from 
Oktibbeha county, and at that session was not only a member 
of the Committee of Education, but was the chairman of the 
Committee on Claims, the first in the list of committees. 

It will be seen that, instead of this being an asylum or a 
refuge for the deaf, its very origin was in the idea of educa- 
tion, and every recommendation, act, and resolution had in 
view the education of the deaf, making it purely an educa- 
tional institution. 

On Wednesday evening, February 22, 1854, just fifteen days 
after the introduction of that resolution, Col. Burt, from the 
Committee of Education, made the following report, to wit : 

Mr. Speakee : The Committee on Education have had under considera- 
tion the resolution of the House instructing them to enqiiire into the 
expediency of establishing an institution for the education of the deaf 
and dumb, and have instructed me to report the following bill, and 
recommend that it do pass. 



The Mississippi Institution. 



5 



The report was received ; the bill was read the first time 
and passed to the orders of the day. On the morning of the 
28th of February Col. Burt called up this bill, and it was 
made the special order for that evening at 7 o'clock. When 
the hour arrived, on motion of Mr. Newman, of Warren 
county, the special order was taken up. The House resolved 
itself into committee of the whole, considered the bill, and 
reported it back without amendment and recommended its 
passage. The report was received and agreed to and the bill 
was read the third time. Mr. Liddell moved an amendment 
by way of a rider. The rider was read the first, second, and 
third times and passed. The question was then taken on the 
passage of the bill and rider and decided in the affirmative by 
the following vote : 

Yeas : Mr. Speaker ('Hon. Hiram Cassidy) of Franklin county, Messrs. 
Austell, Anderson, Burt, Brown, Barksdale, Betters, Bernard, Beasly, 
Buck, Burrus, Covington. Downs, Duckworth, Dubisson, Gilleland, 
Huutlej', Harper of Hinds, Holder, Helm, Foot, Liddell, Lewis, Mc- 
Lauren, Magee, Owen, Philips, Powe, fiozelle, Kawls, Eankiu, Ehodes 
of .Jackson, Regan, Shannon, Sharpe, Saddler, Stark, Strong, Swearin- 
gen, Thomas, Ward, and Wayne — 43. 

Nays : Messrs. Abbott, Autry, Boren, Bardin, Buckley, Dean, 
Dickens, Elzy, Garrett, Gordon, Henderson, Hindman, Hamer, Jayne, 
Lott, McQueen, Mitchell, Monet, Newman, Rives, and Siddall — 20. 

This bill was immediately reported to the Senate. At the 
afternoon session the next day, March 1st, Mr. Webb, senator 
from Pontotoc, called up the bill and it passed its second 
reading. At this juncture Mr. D. W. Adams, an energetic 
senator from Hinds county, got the floor and called up several 
other bills, which were passed. Mr. J. M. Ackerman, of Mon- 
roe county, moved a reconsideration of the bill and it was 
finally passed by the following vote : 

Ayes : Messrs. Adams, Arthur, Berry, Cobb, Farrar, Graves, Heming- 
way, Johnston, McWillie, Nelson, Pegues, West, and Webb — 13. 

Nays: Mr. President (John J. Pettus), Messrs. Beene, Banks, Ellett, 
Greer, Keger, Oliver, Ramsay, and Stewart — 9. 

The bill was reported back to the House at the night session 
of this same day. Time was short ; the legislature, by a reso- 
lution already adopted by both houses, was to adjourn the next 
day. Mr. Siddall, from the Committee on Enrolled Bills, re- 
ported that the joint committee had found the bill correctly 
enrolled. It was then to be signed by the presiding officers 
of both houses, and be sent to the Governor for his approval 



6 



The Mississippi Institution. 



before it could become a law. It was reiDorted to the Gov- 
ernor that evening, signed or approved by him that evening, 
and reported back to the House on the morning of March 2. 

Thus was born, March 1, 1854, the Institution for the Educa- 
tion of the Deaf and Dumb of Mississippi. Those who are 
familiar with the workings of legislative bodies know that, with 
the opposition to this bill, there must have been some inter- 
ested, watchful, experienced, and influential friend to engineer 
it, when it was carried through so rapidly and skilfully, and 
so near the end of the session, the legislature having adjourned 
in less than twelve hours after it was reported back by the 
Governor. There being no other way of finding out who this 
friend was than from the journals of the House and Senate, 
the honor must be attributed to Col. E. R. Burt. 

Col. Burt was auditor of State at the breaking out of the 
war. He gave up his office, raised a company, and tendered 
his services to the Confederate Government. For his gallant 
conduct he was soon promoted to the colonelcy, and laid down 
his life in 1862, at the battle of Leesburg. The fortunes of 
war left no time or money to mark the graves of its heroes. 
Miss Cabaniss, who is and has been for so many years matron 
of the Institution, was an intimate friend of the daughters of 
this good man. In the absence of the tender, loved ones, at her 
own expense, she marked the spot where he was laid, and from 
that day to this she has, unconscious of the fact that he was 
the real founder of the Institution, watched over the tomb of 
a friend whose name will always be honored by the deaf of 
Mississippi. It behooves Mississippians to honor and revere 
the memoi-y of such a friend of her institutions, such a distin- 
guished statesman and brave soldier. 

Col. Burt did not and could not have dreamed of the possi- 
bilities of this Institution, and he certainly legislated wiser 
than he knew. During the years 1890 and 1891 the superin- 
tendent attempted to gather the statistics as to occupations 
and annual earnings of those who had gone out from the Insti- 
tution since its foundation. 

These efforts resulted in showing that out of about three 
hundred who had been in the Institution, returns were received 
from only sixty -two, aggregating twenty-two different employ- 
ments, annual earnings of $13,158, and the total for the whole 
time, $131,257. Referring to this matter, the superintendent 
says in his report : 



The Mississippi Institution. 



7 



With two exceptions, these have all left the Institution since the war. 
The buildings, with all the records, were burned at that time, and there 
is no data from which to gather the facts previous to that period. I have 
been exceedingly careful to prevent an exaggerated showing in the way 
of annual incomes. From these facts I have no hesitancy in stating that 
the pupils who have left the Institution since 1871 are now producing 
annually more than the legislature appropriates for the maintenance of 
the Institution. What better argument can be presented for the liberal 
support of this branch of public education ? Since that date (1871) about 
two hundred pupils have gone out into the world. Some of these have 
died, some have moved and cannot now be located, and some report that 
" they are making a living ;" many of the young ladies have married, and 
while they are not working for wages, they are filling the noble missions 
of wives and mothers, and reflecting credit upon their State and alma 
mater. This list is being constantly increased, for there is not a year 
passes but some intelligent boys and girls, who have been receiving the 
State's bounty under the fostering care of the Institution, decline to be 
further assisted, join the busy throng, and take their places as good citi- 
zens and begin to bear their share of the burdens of government. 

On the 19tli of April following the passage of this bill 
Messrs. "W. B. Smart, S. Pool, and F. C. Jones, trustees of the 
Institution for the Blind, organized as trustees of the Institu- 
tion for the Education of the Deaf and Dumb. Instead of en- 
larging the buildings of the Institution for the Blind as was 
contemplated in the act, and organizing a department for the 
deaf and dumb, the trustees very wisely purchased property 
and established an independent institution. They purchased 
the property on Capitol street, opposite the Governor's Man- 
sion, at $9,000, and opened the Institution for the reception 
of pupils August, 1854, with Mr. John H. Gazlay, a deaf-mute 
and a graduate of the New York Institution, as principal. 
The salary was insufficient and Mr. Gazlay resigned in a few 
months. Mr. Momfort was then employed ; he soon resigned 
to accept a more lucrative position. The school was closed 
about the first of November, 1855, and up to the time of their 
first report, January, 1856, the trustees were unable to secure 
a principal on account of not being able to pay a sufficient 
salary. 

In March, 1856, the following board of trustees was ap- 
pointed by Gov. John J. McEae : Jo Bell, A. B. Cabaniss, W. 
W. Devine, John T. Hull, and W. H. Brown. It appears from 
the report made by this board January, 1857, that the school 
was closed about three months in 1856, because they were 
unable to get a teacher. The records do not show at what 
date the school was opened, but the trustees say : " We 



8 



The Mississippi Institution. 



secured, on June 1st following, Mr. Bliss, a deaf-mute, as a 
teacher, who remained about two mouths." On July 1st of 
the same year they employed as principal Rev. A. Pomroy, 
and Mrs. Pomroy as matron. Later in the year they em- 
ployed Mr. E. E. Bowes, a deaf-mute, as assistant teacher. 
Mr. Bowes had attended both the Ohio and Indiana Institu- 
tions as a pupil. The board seems anxious, and very naturally, 
for the future of the Institution, for they say in this rejDort : 
" How much longer this Institution is to exist must altogether 
depend upon the action of the present legislature." It is a 
pleasure to record that the legislature came to the rescue. In 
addition to the annual appropriation of $2,000 they made an 
increase of $6,000 a year. The trustees recommended in this 
report that the property then owned by the Institution in the 
city be exchanged for that known as St. Andrew's College, 
about one mile west of the city. This suggestion was adopted 
by the legislature and the exchange was made that year. 
Fifteen pupils were received during the year 1856 whose 
names are not given in the report. Rev. A. Pomroy made the 
first report as principal, in January, 1857. Among other 
things, he records the fact that Gen. Jo Bell, jsresident of the 
board, handed him $5, with which, being increased by $2 from 
himself, they prepared the j^upils a " sumptuous Christmas 
festival." 

The future of the Institution now seemed bright, indeed. 
With handsome and commodious buildings, an energetic and 
active principal, the legislature having provided all that was 
asked, the trustees naturally hoped for large prosperity. 
Whether there was any further trouble or not the record is 
silent ; but before the close of another year Mr. and Mrs. 
Pomroy quietly drop out and Mr. A. K. Martin, nephew of the 
distinguished founder, and for thirty-five years the successful 
superintendent of the Missouri Institution for the Education 
of the Deaf and Dumb, appears as superintendent. Mr. Mar- 
tin was one of those educated, high-toned, chivalrous. Chris- 
tian Southern gentlemen, whose wide experience and liberal 
knowledge in the management and education of the deaf ren- 
dered him peculiarly well fitted to adorn this position. 

The following January Mr. Martin makes a lengthy report, 
in which the Institution appears in an exceedingly flourishing- 
condition. It was in September of this year, 1857, that Mr. 
L. W. Saunders, who is still at his post, was first appointed 



The Mississippi Institution. 



9 



teacher. In the words of Mr. Martin, Mr. Saunders was, at 
that time, "a promising young pupil, who has by his zeal and 
industry made such advances in the art of teaching as give 
good promise of his success. He is also indebted, for his ap- 
pointment, to his genial temjjer and good moral character." 
With the excej)tion of the years the Institution was closed on 
account of the war, Mr. Saunders has taught continuously in 
this Institution since his appointment in 1857. There seems 
to be no record of any other man having served Mississippi, 
in any capacity, for so many consecutive years. This history 
would not be complete without a special mention of this 
^' promising young jjupil" who has grown old in the service 
of the Institution, but whose energy and skill are yet being 
vigorously impressed upon the deaf of his native State. It 
affords the compiler of this history great pleasure to bear this 
testimony. 

The next report is made in January, 1859, with thirty-four 
pupils enrolled. The crisis evidently has passed, the trustees 
think ; Mr. Martin is still in charge, and the Institution is in 
a highly prosperous condition. 

In September, 1860, Mr. Martin resigns to accept a similar 
position in the Louisiana Institution. By the first of October 
the board had secured the services of Mr. A. G. Scott, at that 
time principal of the Tennessee Institution for the Deaf and 
Dumb. The next report is made in 1861. During this time 
the number of pupils had increased from thirty-four to fifty- 
seven and everything seems to have prospered accordingly. 
'Fox the first time this report gives a list of the officers and 
teachers. 

A new era is dawning upon our country. About this time 
^'rumors of unsuccessful and successful wars " fill the air, and 
the dark clouds of civil strife begin to settle down upon this 
happy and prosperous people. Before another biennial term 
had passed, the iron heel of War was on the neck of this child 
of State, and she lay trampled in the dust. The buildings 
were burned, this beautiful and happy home was desolated, 
and the unfortunate and helpless childi'en were left, it seemed, 
to the doom of darkness and ignorance. It will not be out of 
place here to inject the following extract from the message of 
Gov. Pettus sent to the legislature, Monday. November 4, 
1861: 



10 



The Mississippi Institution. 



It is my paiuful duty to inform you that Col. E. K. Burt, auditor of 
public accounts, fell mortally wounded at the battle of Leesburg, while 
gallantly leading a regiment of Mississippi's brave sons to one of the 
most brilliant victories which has come to our arms during the war. 
These are times that try men's souls. 

The deaf of Mississippi can never cease to honor the State 
for what it has done for them. Inexorable war had brought 
death and destruction and almost famine, yet amid all this 
desolation the representatives of the people did not forget 
the deaf, as will be seen from the following section, taken 
from an act of 1862 and 1863 : 

Be it enacted by the legislature of the State of Mississippi, That the 
trustees of the Mississippi Institution for the Deaf and Dumb be au- 
thorized and hereby empowered to place the deaf and dumb orphans in 
their charge, and such others in the State as are similarlj' situated, in 
some suitable institution for the deaf and dumb in or out of the State 
until the trustees of the Institution for the Deaf and Dumb properly 
fit up and organize the same for the reception of scholars. 

The same act appropriated $7,000 annually to enable the 
trustees to carry out this provision. The next legislature not 
only provided for the orphans, but, to use the words of the 
act, " for the deaf-mutes who have been or may be under the 
pupilage of the Institution for that class." 

No one can say that Mississippi has neglected her deaf 
children, when, amid the roar of the cannon and while the 
circling smoke of battle ascended up to heaven as incense from 
the altar upon which the flower of hei- manhood has been 
offered a willing sacrifice, she takes time to stop and provide 
for their wants. What an incentive to the deaf to become 
honorable and useful citizens! This history from April 23, 
1862, to October 21, 1865, can best be told by the following 
reports, which read like a novel : 

Kepoet of the Joint Standing Committee on the Deaf and Dumb 

Institution. 

Mr. Pkesident : The Joint Standing Committee on the Institution for 
the Deaf and Dumb beg leave respectfully to report that they have en- 
deavored to discharge their duty in the best manner they could with the 
meagre information they have been able to obtain. We have not visited 
the grounds on which the buildings once stood, because we deemed it 
unnecessary, having learned that they were all destroyed by the fortunes 
of war. 

The impoverished condition of the finances of the State preclude the 
possibility of appropriations being made, such as will be requisite for 
erecting suitable buildings for this Institution, except, perhaps, some 



The Mississipjrl Institution . 



11 



small buildings for temporary use, and which may hereafter be used for 
workshops, etc., by the Institution, as indicated by the board of trustees 
in their report to his Excellency Gov. Humphreys, which is herewith 
filed and asked to be made a part of this report. 

We would recommend that the annual appropriations now made by law 
to this Institution be used by the said board of trustees for the purpose 
of boarding and tuition of the indigent deaf-mutes until such time as the 
State may be able to put the Institution again into successful operation. 

In examining into the facts as presented in relation to the burning of 
the building by the Federal forces, and the general destruction of the 
property of the Institution, we find nothing to allege in condemnation of 
the trustees and managers of the Institution, but, on the contrary, we 
verily believe they did the best they could under the circumstances. The 
destruction of the property is a calamity much to be deplored, especially 
at such a time as this, when the treasury of the State is empty and the 
people of the State unable to bear the weight of a heavy taxation. 

We still recommend this unfortunate class of our fellow-creatures to the 
fostering care of the State. She has adopted them, and through weal or 
woe, riches or poverty, she ought to do the best she can for them. And 
although we cannot recommend appropriations at the present crisis of 
our affairs for the purpose of erecting an asylum for them on a magnifi- 
cent scale, yet we would not have you for a moment lose sight of this 
important object and its consummation at the earliest possible time con- 
sistent with paramount public interest. 

P. H. NAPIEE, 

Chairman Senate Committee. 

JNO. L. MILTON, 
Chairman House Committee. 

IIeport or THE Teustees of the Deaf and Dumb Institute. 

Jackson, October 21, 1865. 

To His Excellency B. G. Humphreys, 

Governor of Mississippi : 
Having received from you a note enquiring if we had a report to offer, 
and also asking us for any suggestions we might be able to make in re- 
gard to a future policy, we promptly proceed to the discharge of the duty 
assigned us. 

The Institution of the Deaf and Dumb had been, under its former 
managers, justly a matter of pride to the State. It had clearly been 
conducted to a success, and stood a proud exemplification of the gene- 
rosity of the State and the energy and capacity of her citizens. In this 
condition war found this benevolent Institution. 

Soon the thunder of artillery was heard in our land ; battles were 
fought and blood flowed as a great river. Our mangled soldiers came 
pouring into our city, and every house that could be used for a hospital 
was demanded, and these poor God-stricken creatures were turned from 
their comfortable home to make room for the bleeding soldier. This 
was done cheerfully by the managers ; the soldier must be cared for, and 



12 



The Mississippi Institution. 



the deaf-mute, for a time, turned over to his former friends. It was 
war, inexorable war, which demanded this sacrifice ; there was no help 
for it, no avoiding it. As time rolled on, our advancing foe reached our 
city, carrying the torch in one hand, the sword in the other. Black 
•desolation marked his march, and our noble Institution did not escape. 
It was levelled to the ground and left a smouldering mass. Apparatus, 
implements, fences, and every appurtenance shared the fate of the build- 
ings, and all that we have left is the land. 

This is the brief history of the Institution of the Deaf and Dumb. 
* * * We must begin humbly, and perseveringly push on until, by 
energy and prudence, prosperity shall again dawn upon us. In the mean- 
time we propose (as the law now allows) to send the orphans to the 
cheapest and best Institution in our reach. * * * The above is most 
respectfully submitted. 

A. B. CABANISS, 
GEO. L. POTTER, 
W. Q. POINDEXTER, 
Trustees of Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb. 

The provisions made in a part of an act quoted above con- 
tinued till February 13, 1869. Up to this date the Institution 
was entirely dependent upon the whims of the legislature, as 
that body could have abolished it at any time. Fortunately 
for the deaf, when the constitution of Mississippi, which was 
adopted in 1869, was drawn up, some friend was thoughtful 
enough to secure their interest by the enactment of the fol- 
lowing clause, viz : 

It shall be the duty of the legislature to provide by law for the sup- 
port of institutions for the education of the deaf, dumb, and blind. 

This provision was re-enacted in the constitution of 1890 ; 
consequently the education of the deaf of Mississippi is an 
assured fact until this jjart of her organic law is repealed. 

In obedience to this provision, the legislature of 1871 re- 
organized and rebuilt the Institution, and its history has been 
one of continual progress from that day to this. Under the 
act authorizing the rebuilding of the Institution, Gov. Alcorn 
appointed a board of trustees, which proceeded at once to pur- 
chase grounds and buildings. 

After visiting various sites in Jackson and other cities, the 
property now occupied, and at that time owned by Mrs. 
Edward Yerger, and some adjoining, was secured for $26,000 
in State warrants. 

The board met July 8, 1871, and elected Dr. J. L. Carter, 
then a member of the board, as principal. The school was 
opened on December 1, 1871, and in his first report, December 



The 3Iissifisip2ji InatHatlon . 



13 



31, Dr. Carter gives the names of nine pupils who had entered, 
and stated there were thirty-five applications on file. His 
second annual report shows that forty-five had been received. 
In this report, December, 1872, the principal recommends the 
introduction of articulation teaching, but the fact is noticeable 
that it was just ten years till this department was inaugurated. 
The next report of Dr. Carter gives the names of fifty pupils 
received, and in 1875 forty-three. 




THE MISSISSIPPI INSIITUUON FOK THE DEAF AND DUMB. DEPARTMENT FOK ^¥HITK PUPILS. 



Before the next annual report was made, Dr. Carter resigned, 
and in referring to that subject the board said : " The Insti- 
tution continued under the efficient management of its former 
principal. Dr. J. L. Carter, until October 23, 1876, at which 
time, very much to the regret of all interested in its prosperity, 
he tendered his resignation and removed to another State." 
Dr. M. S. Craft, a member of the board of trustees, was put 
in charge of the Institution during the interim. On the 16th 
of November following, Mr. Charles H. Talbot, for many years 



14 



TJie Mississiiypi Institution. 



a successful teacher in the Kentucky Institution, was appointed 
to fill this vacancy. 

The next December forty pupils were reported as having 
been received during the year. Mr. Talbot was confronted 
with a large deficit hanging over the Institution. The board 
asked for $12,386 with which to liquidate this debt and carry 
the Institution through the next year. It appears the legisla- 
ture appropriated only $10,182, but by the careful management 
and judicious purchases of Mr. Talbot the indebtedness was 




J. H. IJOBYNS, M. A. 



paid, and all expenditures for the year were met and a balance 
was reported of $700. This report shows forty-one pupils 
present. In 1877 an amendment to the constitution changes 
the sessions of the legislature from annual to biennial. The 
next report appeared in 1878, and seventy-one pupils had been 
received during that time. In the summer of 1878, it will be 
remembered, the terrible epidemic of yellow fever visited this 
city, and the" school was not opened till December. This is 
Mr. Talbot's last report, December, 1879. Before another 
biennial term passed, he tendered his resignation, to take effect 
March 1, 1881, and returned to his native State, where he has 



The Mississippi Institution . 



15 



enjoyed the quiet and comfort of an elegant country home and 
indulged in the luxuriant abundance of a magnificent Kentucky 
blue-grass farm. Mr. Talbot was a Christian man of great force 
of character and splendid financial ability, and was successful 
in carrying the Institution through the most trying financial 
period of the State's history. 

On January 10, 1881, Mr. J. R. Dobyns, the present incum- 
bent, was elected to succeed Mr. Talbot, and entered upon his 
duties March 1 following. 

During the biennial term ending December 31, 1881, there 
were received ninety- two pupils, and sixty -eight reported pres- 
ent at that time. In his report for 1880 and 1881, the super- 
intendent recommended the introduction of articulation teach- 
ing, the teaching of trades, the purchase of more ground, and 
the erection of a school building, and provision for the educa- 
tion of colored deaf, all of which recommendations were adopted 
by the board and provided for by the legislature. The printing- 
office was opened, and on April 1, 1882, the publication of the 
Deaf-Mute Voice was begun, which has continued, with the 
exception of a few months in the latter part of 1889 and the 
beginning of 1890. The teacliing of articulation was begun 
in November, 1882, by Miss Mossie McGann, whose successful 
history of six years' teaching in this Institution and whose 
untimely death in 1889 are still fresh in the memory of the 
profession. The separate department for colored pupils was 
opened October 1, 1882, and has continued to grow during the 
ten years of its existence. 

In December, 1883, an epidemic of typhoid fever prevailed 
in the Institution, and, continuing to grow more and more seri- 
ous, the school was dismissed in March, 1884. Though there 
were many cases of the fever, there was but one death. The 
entire history of the Institution records only six deaths among 
the pupils while in school. There were under instruction in 
1882 and 1883 eighty pupils, with seventy -nine present when 
the report for those years was made. During 1884 and 1885 
there were enrolled one hundred and ten, with eighty present 
December 31, 1885. 

About this time the De I'Epee Literary Society was organ- 
ized for the pupils, and has continued its regular monthly 
meetings, much to the entertainment and profit of its members. 
In April, 1886, the Sixth Conference of Principals and Super- 
intendents was held here, which became an important part of 



16 



The Mississippi Institution. 



the history of this Institution. There were present at this 
Conference representatives from twenty-four States and two 
Provinces of Canada. This Conference was signaHzed as the 
" Gallaudet Conference," in which was celebrated the one 
hundredth anniversary of the birth of Thomas Hopkins Gal- 
laudet, the founder of the education of the deaf in America. 




MISSISSIPPI INSTITUTION FOR THE DEAF AND DOME. DEPAKTMENT FOR COLORED PUPILS. 



The enrollment for the period covered by the report made 
in December, 1887, was ninety for 1886 and ninety-three for 
1887, with seventy-six present at that writing. There were 
received in 1888 ninety-six, and in 1889 ninety-five, with eighty- 
four present at the close of that year. There were enrolled in 
1890 one hundred, and in 1891 ninety-five, with eighty-two 



The Mississippi Institution. 



17 



present when the report was made. There were received in 
1892 ninety-one, and up to this writing, in 1893, ninety-three 
have been admitted. 

This Institution is sujjported entirely by appropriations 
made by the legislature and has never received a donation or 
bequest. 

It is free to all the deaf of the State who cannot be taught 
in the public schools ; the age of admission and time of re- 
maining under instruction have been very wisely left to the 
discretion of the board of trustees. The course of study is 
about what is taught in the public schools of the State, and 
the average pupil who remains nine or ten sessions is well 
equipped for the battle of life. The combined system is the 
one in use. It is the constant aim of the management to 
supplement their education with some useful trade, so that 
they will go out into the woiid jiroducers instead of consumers. 

Brief as this history is, it requked days of searching among- 
the musty records of state, and should its friends find any 
material omissions or mistakes it is hoped they will attribute 
them to incomplete records and the limited time allowed for 
its preparation. 

Thus ends a brief account of the record made by this Insti- 
tution, which record would, undoubtedly, make an important 
and interesting chapter in a complete history of Mississippi. 

Let the deaf of Mississippi uncover their heads and lift up 
their hearts in gratitude for the rivers of blessings that have 
been flowing from this Institution for all these years. 



APPENDIX. 



THE LAW GOVEENING THE MISSISSIPPI INSTITUTION FOR 
THE DEAF AND DUMB. 

Annotated Code. 
Chapter 64. 

2320 (678). Name and Franchise. — The Institution for the instruction 
of the deaf and dumb, heretofore established at Jackson, shall continue 
to exist, for the purposes of its establishment, under the name of " Insti- 
tute for the Deaf and Dumb," with power to receive and hold property, 
real and personal, for its benefit, and to accept and use, as provided by 
law, all bequests, devises, and donations made to it; and it shall con- 
tinue to enjoy the rights and privileges conferred on it by law, and such 
as are necessaiy to accomplish the purposes of its establishment. 

2321. Parts of Chapter for Institute for the Blind Applied. — Every 
section, except the first, of the chapter on " Institute for the Blind " 
shall apply to the Institute for the Deaf and Dumb as fully as if inserted 
here, changing the word " blind" to " deaf " wherever it occurs. 

2311 (670). Government; Trustees. — The government of the Institute 
is vested in a board of five trustees, to be appointed by the Governor, 
with the advice and consent of the Senate, for a term of two years and 
until successors are appointed. 

2312 (671). Vacancies; Removals. — The Governor may remove any 
trustee for cause, and he may fill all vacancies occurring during a recess 
of the Senate. 

2.S13 (672). President of the Board; Quo7'um. — The Governor is ex 
oficio president of the board of trustees ; but in his absence the board 
may select a president for the time. A majority of the trustees shall 
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business ; but when a bare 
majority is present, the concurrence of all will be necessary. 

2314 (674). Powers of Trustees. — The board of trustees may adopt all 
needful rules and regulations for the government of the Institute, and 
may regulate the number and fix the salaries of under officers and 
teachers, and prescribe the duties of all officers and teachers and the 
course of instruction. 

2315 (675). None but Residents Admitted.— Tlh.ehosL\-&oi trustees shall 
not admit into the Institute a person who is not a bona fide resident of 
this State, and who is not of good moral character. 

2316 (675). Board and Tuition; Free Pupils.— The board of trustees 
shall fix the amount to be paid by pupils for board and tuition and the 
terms of admission and times of payment ; and it shall admit free of all 
charges, upon the certificate of the county superintendent of education, 
all indigent deaf persons who are eligible. 

2317. Superintendent. — There shall be a superintendent of the Insti- 
tute, to be appointed by the Governor, with the advice and consent of 



20 



The Mississippi Institution. 



the Senate, for a term of two years, and he may be removed by the Gov- 
ernor for cause. All vacancies occurring during the recess of the Senate 
shall be filled by the Governor. 

2318. Same; His Duties. — The duties of the superintendent shall be 
prescribed by the board of trustees, and he shall have general control 
over and responsibility for the management of the Institute and the care 
of its property. He shall make an annual report to the board of trustees, 
up to the first day of October, in such form as the board shall prescribe, 
and, in particular, giving the statistics for the preceding year. 

2319 (676). Report of Trustees to Legislature. — The board of trustees 
shall make a report, through the Governor, every two years to the legis- 
lature, setting forth a full statement of its official acts and of the condi- 
tion and progress of the Institute, with such recommendations as it may 
deem proper, and containing a detailed report of all receipts and expen- 
ditures for the two preceding fiscal years. 



MEMBEES AND OFFICERS OF BOARDS OF TRUSTEES. 



Members of Boards. 

Messrs. W. B. Smaet 1854-1856 

F. C. Jones 1854-1856 

S. Pool 18.i4-1856 

Jo Bell 1856-1857 

W. W. Divine 1856-1857 

JohnT. Hull 1856-1857 

A. B. Cabaniss 1856-1865 

W. H. Brown 1856-1865 

F. S. Hunt 1857-1865 

W. Q. POINDEXTER 1868 

R, J. Alcorn 1871-1874 

Geo. C. McKee 1871-1872 

M. S. Craft 1871-1878, 1884-1888 

E. W. Cabaniss 1871-1874 

C. Caldwell 1871-1874 

C. A. Foster 1871-1872 

J. A. Kausler 1872-1874 

R. L. Saunders 1874-1878, 1890-1893 

G. D. SiDWAY 1874-1880 

John Galbreath 1874-1875 

B. H. Gottrell 1874-1875 

H. M. Taylor 1874-1882, 1890-1893 

John Hunter 1878-1893 

S. GwiN 1880-1882 

Frank Johnston .1879-1883 

G. K. Harrington 1882-1884 

D. N. Barrows 1882-1893 

E. Watkins 1884-1888 

S. S. Carter 1888-1890 

S. S. Calhoon 1888-1893 

Presidents of Boards. 

Messrs. W. B. Smart 1854-1856 

Jo Bell 1856-1861 

A. B. Cabaniss 1861-1865 

Govs. R. J. Alcorn, Ex Officio 1871-1872 

R. C. Powers, " 1872-1873 

Adelbert Ames, " 1873-1875 

J.M.Stone, " 1875-1882,1890-1893 

Robert Lowhy, " 1882-1890 



The Mississippi Institution. 21 

Seceetaeies op Boaeds. 
Messrs. W. H. Brown 1856 

W. Q. PoiNDEXTEE 

C. A. FosTBE 1871-1872 

J. A. Kauslee 1872-1875 

J. A. Galbeeath 1875-1878 

E. L. Saundees 1878-1888, 1890-1893 

S. S. Cartee 1888-1890 

Teeasueers op Boards. 

Messrs. John H. Hull 1856-1857 

W. H. Beown 1857-1865 

C. A. Foster 1871-1871 

W. H. Vasae 1871-1875 

H. M. Taylor 1875-1876 

W. L. Heminway, Ex Officio 1876-1890 

J. J. Evans, Ex Officio 1890-1893 

OFFICERS AND TEACHERS. 

Peincipals and Supeeintendents. 

John H. Gazly (deaf) 1854-1855 

Mr. MoMFORT (deaf) 185.5-1855 

Eev. A. PoMEOY 1856-1856 

A. K. Maetin, M. a 1856-1860 

A. G. Scott, M. A 1860-1862 

J. L. Cabtee, M. D 1871-1876 

Chas. H. Talbot, M. A 1876-1881 

J. E. DoBYNS, M. a 1881-1893 

Teachers. 

Mr. Bliss (deaf) 1856-1856 

Mr. E. N. Bowes (deaf) 1856-1857 

Mr. L. W. Saunders (deaf) 1857-1862, 1871-1893 

Mr. James Goodwin (deaf) 1859-1860 

Miss Mary Head (deaf) 1859-1862 

Mr. J. W. Scott (deaf) 1872-1893 

Miss James (deaf) 1873-1873 

Miss Mattie Brown (deaf) 1874-1874 

Miss Ella Westgate 1875-1875 

Miss ZoRA Hodges 1876-1876 

Mrs. M. C. Young 1877-1893 

Mr. Alfred Kearny (deaf) 1881-1893 

Miss MossiE McGann, articulation 1882-1889 

Miss Lulu E. Wharton, articulation 1889-1893 

Mr. Hugh Erwin (deaf) 1890-1893 

Miss Sarah McCluee, articulation 1892-1893 

Art Department. 

Mr. W. A. Jordan 1884-1893 

Domestic Department. — Matrons. 

Mrs. Sue Lindsey 1854-1855 

Mrs. French 1855-1856 

Mrs. A. PoMEOY 1856-1856 

Mrs. E. a. Adams 1857-1859 

Mrs. Caroline Allen 1859-1860 

Mrs. A. G. Scott 1860-1862 

Miss E. A. Cabaniss 1871-1872, 1876-1893 

Mrs. L. E. Garter 1872-1876 

Miss Annie Morse, assistant (deaf) 1890-1893 

Mrs. K. B. Wright, Col. Dept 1882-1883 

Mrs. J. H. Allen, " 188.3-1886 

Mrs. Addie Rogers, " " (deaf) 1886-1891 

Mrs. Ollie Erwin, " " (deaf) 1891-1893 



'22 The Mississippi Institution. 

Needlework Depaetment. 

Miss Kate Swann 1879-1893 

Miss Annie Morse 1891-1893 

Physicians. 

A. B. Cabaniss, M. D 1854-1862 

M. S. Chaft, M. D 1871-1888 

WiET Johnston, M. D 1888-1893 

Foremen op Printing Office. 

L. L. Matthews (deaf) 1882-1884 

Joe G. Bradley (deaf) 1884-1886 

J. B. Makmon , 1886-1888 

Charles S. Deem (deaf) 1890-1893 

Foremen of Farm. 

CoEDELL Weight 1882-1883 

Claude Winslow 1883-1883 

J. E. Rogers Tdeaf) 1883-1891 

J. S. Erwin 1891-1893 



RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS ON ACCOUNT OF THE 
INSTITUTION FOR THE DEAF AND DUMB OF MISSISSIPPI 
AS TAKEN FROM THE REPORTS OF OFFICERS AND THE 



BOOKS OF STATE TREASURERS. 

1854 and 1855. 

Receipts from all sources §11,184 51 

Disbursed for all purposes 10,164 94 



Balance |1,019 57 

1856. 

Receipts from ail sources $2, 324 16 

Disbursed for all purposes 1,917 69 



Balance 1406 47 

1857. 

Receipts from all sources $12,306 35 

Disbursed for all purposes 7,963 75 



Balance $4, 342 60 

1858 and 1859. 

Receipts from all sources $16, 542 60 

Disbursed for all purposes 15, 911 60 



Balance $631 00 

1860 and 1861. 

Receipts from all sources $15,631 00 

Disbursed for all purposes 15,388 06 



Balance $242 94 

1862-1870. 

Receipts from all sources $32,150 00 

Disbursed for all pui-poses 32, 150 00 

(Records very incomplete.) 



The Mississippi Institution. 



23 



1871. 

Keeeipts from all sources f 55, 000 00 

Disbursed for all purposes 46,071 56 



Balance #8,928 44 

(Institution rebuilt this year.) 

1872. 

Receipts from all sources f 18, 953 44 

Disbursed for all purposes 16,202 73 



Balance f 2, 750 71 

1873. 

Receipts from all sources $17, 750 71 

Disbursed for all purposes 15, 413 40 



Balance $2,337 31 

1874. 

Receipts from all soiirces #15, 000 00 

Disbursed for all purposes 15,000 00 

Indebtedness 2,283 97 

1875. 

Receipts from all sources f 12,909 30 

Disbursed for all purposes 12,909 30 

Indebtedness 1,581 49 

1876. 

Receipts from all sources #9, 000 00 

Disbursed for all purposes 9, 000 00 

Indebtedness 1,386 00 

1877. 

Receipts from all sources $10, 182 05 

Disbursed for all purposes 9, 421 05 



Balance f761 00 

1878 and 1879. 

Receipts from all sources $18,420 21 

Disbursed for all purposes 18,420 21 

1880 and 1881. 

Receipts for all purposes $21,838 94 

Disbursed for all purposes 21,838 94 

Indebtedness 1,352 71 

(Addition made for colored pupils.) 

1882 and 1883. 

Receipts from all sources $52, 220 46 

Disbursed for all purposes 50, 772 14 



Balance $1,448 32 

(School building and Institution for colored pupils built.) 

1884 and 1885. 

Receipts from all sources $39,454 15 

Disbursed for all purposes 38, 906 50 



Balance $547 65 

1886 and 1887. 

Receipts from all sources $28,696 51 

Disbursed for all purposes 28, 696 51 

Indebtedness 825 00 



24 



The Mississippi Institution. 



1888 and 1889. 

Eeceipts from all sources $28,874 86 

Disbursed for all purposes 28, 874 86 

1890 and 1891. 

Eeceipts from all sources §37,465 65 

Disbursed for all purposes 37, 035 (15 



Balance $270 00 

1892. 

Eeceipts from all sources $17, 750 00 

Disbursed for all purposes 17, 750 '00 

Indebtedness 485_^60 

Recapitulation. 

1854-1892. 

Eeceived from all sources $473,654 90 

Disbursed for all purposes 449, 808 89 